The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

December the Thirteenth, Two Thousand and Six

Frank G. Jackson
Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Emily Lipovan
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Nina Turner
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Joe Cimperman
Joseph Santiago
Brian J. Cummins
Kevin J. Kelley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
69
69
71
71
72
72
72
72
73
78
79

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Nina Turner..................................................16204 Sunny Glen Avenue
44128
Robert J. White .................................................9703 Cardwell Avenue
44105
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Patricia J. Britt........................................................12402 Britton Drive
44120
Fannie M. Lewis.........................................................7416 Star Avenue
44103
Sabra Pierce Scott.................................................1136 East 98th Street
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Roosevelt Coats ....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
44112
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Joe Cimperman....................................................3053 West 12th Street
44113
Joseph Santiago ...................................................3169 West 14th Street
44109
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Kevin J. Kelley ..............................................6608 Woodhaven Avenue
44144
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Michael A. Dolan ...............................................16519 West Park Road
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Emily Lipovan, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Tracy Y. Martin, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
______________, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Debra Linn Talley, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Julius Ciaccia, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNELAND HUMAN RESOURCES – Trudy Hutchinson, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Brian A. Reilly, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Angel Guzman, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James
Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Rev. Sam Edward Small, Council Member Joe Cimperman.
FAIR CAMPAIGN FINANCE COMMISSION – Chris Warren, C. Ellen Connally, Hillary S.
Taylor.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council
Member ____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; _________, Vice Chair; Daniel Conway, Doris
Honsa, Lisa Camacho.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley; Councilman Nina Turner.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue

POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Anjou Parekh, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.

AUDIT COMMITTEE – Robert Rawson, Chairman; Yvette Ittu, Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis,
Don Neebes, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – India Pierce Lee, Chair;
Laura M. Noble, Vice Chair; Robert Brown, Thomas Coffey, Jennifer Coleman, Lee,
Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, Ari Maron, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Council Member Joe
Cimperman, Robert Jackimowicz; Robert Keiser, Secretary.

CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
14B
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Emanuella Groves
13A
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Anita Laster Mays
14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore
14A
Judge Charles Patton, Jr.
12B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Michael Ryan
12A
Judge Angela R. Stokes
15C
Judge Joan Synenberg
13C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
12C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Michael E. Flanagan – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak – Bailiff;
Regina Daniel – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13, 2006

Vol. 93

No. 4853

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2006
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

EMILY LIPOVAN
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2006-2009
MONDAY—Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property & Recreation Committee: Johnson, Chair; White, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek,
Turner.
9:30 A.M. — Health & Human Services Committee: Britt, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair; Conwell, Kelley,
Reed, Santiago, Westbrook.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Brady, Chair; Turner, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Johnson,
Polensek, Reed, Santiago, White.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Dolan, Vice
Chair; Cimperman, Lewis, Pierce
Scott, Reed, White.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Britt,
Coats, Conwell, Pierce Scott, Westbrook, White, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Pierce
Scott, Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair;
Brady, Cimperman, Cummins, Coats,
Lewis, Westbrook. Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
Lewis, Chair; Santiago, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Coats, Conwell, Johnson, Turner.
WEDNESDAY—Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation & Transportation Committee: Kelley, Chair;
Westbrook, Vice Chair; Brancatelli,
Britt, Cleveland, Dolan, Turner.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Britt, Coats, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek, Santiago, Turner.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice Chair;
Cleveland, Cummins, Dolan, Kelley,
Polensek, Santiago, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chair, Westbrook, Vice Chair, Conwell, Dolan,
Lewis, Reed, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland,
Kelley,
Pierce
Scott,
Polensek.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Sweeney, Chair; Britt, Kelley,
Pierce Scott, Santiago, Westbrook,
White.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats, Chair; Pierce Scott, Kelley,
Sweeney, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, December 11, 2006
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Britt, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Coats,
Conwell,
Cummins,
Dolan,
Johnson,
Kelley,
Lewis,
Polensek, Reed, Santiago, Pierce
Scott, Sweeney, Turner, Westbrook,
White and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Frank G.
Jackson; Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff; Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer; Valarie J. McCall, Chief
of Governmental Affairs; Tracy Y.
Martin, Chief of Education; Maureen
Harper, Chief of Communications;
Debra Linn Talley, Director of
Equal Opportunity; Rebecca Schaltenbrand, Legislative Affairs; Directors Triozzi, Dumas, Wasik, Carroll,
Flask, Cox, Rush, Hutchinson, Reilly, Fumich, Guzman, Griffin and
Brown.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
prayer was offered by Council Member Robert White of Ward 2. Pledge
of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Santiago, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting were dispensed with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Zone.

2269

FROM THE DIRECTOR
OF FINANCE
File No. 2070-06-A.
Bridges and Roadways Improvement Bonds Fiscal Officers Certificate. Seventeen Million Nine Hundred Thirty-Five Thousand Dollars
($17,935,000). Received.
File No. 2071-06-A.
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds
Fiscal Officers Certificate. Sixteen
Million Three Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($16,350,000). Received.
File No. 2072-06-A.
Revitalization Improvement Bonds
Fiscal Officers Certificate. Three
Million Seventy-Five Thousand Dollars ($3,075,000). Received.
File No. 2073-06-A.
Parks and Recreation Facilities
Improvement Bonds Fiscal Officers
Certificate. Two Million Eight Hundred Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars
($2,825,000). Received.
File No. 2074-06-A.
Final Judgment Improvement Bonds
Fiscal Officers Certificate. Two Million Fifty Thousand Dollars ($2,050,000).
Received.
File No. 2075-06-A.
Cemeteries Improvement Bonds
Fiscal
Officers
Certificate.
Five
Hundred Fifteen Thousand Dollars
($515,000). Received.
PLAT
File No. 2110-06.
A Residential Townhouse Development for Wade Park Townhouses.
(Ward 9).
Approved by Committees on Public Service and City Planning.
Without objection, plat approved.
Yeas 21. Nays 0.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 2111-06—Jerome A. Brentar.
Res. No. 2112-06—Dr. Edward G.
Vargo.
Res. No. 2113-06—Harry Gray.
Res. No. 2114-06—Robert Smith.
Res. No. 2115-06—Tom Kemer.
Res. No. 2116-06 — Edythe Gwendolyn Johnson Couts.
Res. No. 2117-06—Jerry Brentar.
Res. No. 2118-06—Donna Contorno.
Res. No. 2119-06—Andrew Knaus.
Res. No. 2120-06—Frank Fabrizi.

The City Record

4
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res.
Res.
Res.
Res.
lia.
Res.
Res.
Res.
Ray.
Res.
Res.

No.
No.
No
No.

2121-06—Troy Smith.
2122-06—Lanée Latina.
2123-06—Rhoda Katzel.
2124-06 — Alfonso D’Emi-

No. 2125-06—Peter C. Kole.
No. 2126-06—Dick Russ.
No. 2127-06 — Della Skipper
No. 2128-06—Bridge Brigade.
No 2129-06—Sr. Donna Hawk.

RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 2130-06—Capt. Wayne E.
Bratton.
Res. No. 2131-06—National City.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 2070-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of Bonds
in the maximum principal amount of
$17,935,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve the Municipal Street System and related facilities and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Seventeen
Million Nine Hundred Thirty-Five
Thousand Dollars ($17,935,000) (the
“Bonds”) to finance the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is twenty (20)
years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance of unvoted general obligations of the City, with the specific
terms of each series of Bonds to be
contained in ordinances authorizing
the issuance of Bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Bonds is necessary
to provide funds to pay the costs of
certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section 1 that are
urgently needed for the benefit of
the City, and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes
an
emergency
measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety, and for

the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Seventeen Million Nine Hundred Thirty-Five Thousand Dollars
($17,935,000) for the purpose of providing funds to improve the municipal street system and related facilities, including streets, expressways,
roadways, driveways, underground
vaults, sidewalks and pedestrian
walkways, by acquiring, constructing, reconstructing, opening, extending, widening, grading, draining,
paving, resurfacing, lighting and
curbing, removing or reconstructing
underground vaults to preserve the
public right of way, installing gutters, sidewalks and related pedestrian
improvements,
constructing
and improving culverts, resetting and
constructing catch basins and other
storm drainage facilities, constructing, reconstructing, replacing, renovating and rehabilitating bridges,
acquiring any real estate and interests in real estate, including easements, necessary for such purpose,
and installing signs, signals, markings and other devices for traffic
control purposes, together with all
necessary and incidental appurtenances, and to pay any capitalized
interest and all expenses incurred in
connection with the issuance of the
securities, including all financing
costs within the meaning of Section
133.01(K) of the Revised Code and
such other costs of the foregoing
permanent improvements that may
be financed with the proceeds of
securities as permitted by Section
133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised Code
and as otherwise permitted by law.
Section 2.
Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance for the purpose stated in
Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated
“Bridges
and
Roadways
Improvement Bonds” and may contain such further designation as provided in the Certificate of Award
identified below. The Bonds shall be
issued in one lot as fully registered
Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or
any integral multiple thereof. The
Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
March 1, 2007, or such other date,
but in no event later than December
31, 2008, specified in the certificate
of award providing for the final
terms of the Bonds and the sale of
the Bonds signed by the Director of
Finance in accordance with this
Ordinance
(the
“Certificate
of
Award”). The Bonds shall be issued
in the principal amount specified in
the Certificate of Award, which
shall not exceed the amount stated
in Section 1. The Bonds shall bear
interest from their date until the
principal amount is paid at the rate
or rates per year specified in the
Certificate of Award, provided that
the weighted average of such rates

2270

December 13, 2006
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed six percent (6%) per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable semi-annually on May 15
and November 15 of each year,
beginning November 15, 2007, or on
such other dates specified in the
Certificate of Award as the dates on
which interest on the Bonds shall be
payable
(the
“Interest
Payment
Dates”).
The
Bonds
shall
mature
on
November 15 in twenty (20) substantially equal annual installments,
beginning November 15, 2007, or
according to the schedule set forth
in the Certificate of Award, provided that (i) each principal payment
shall occur on an Interest Payment
Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be no earlier than November 15, 2007 and no
later than December 31, 2009, (iii)
the final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than twenty (20)
years from that date which is
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount
thereof
shall
be
payable in annual installments such
that the total principal and interest
payments on the Bonds in any fiscal year in which principal is
payable is not more than three times
the amount of those payments in
any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the “Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption or purchase prior to stated maturity as follows:
(a) Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term

December 13, 2006
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent
of the principal amount thereof
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation). Any excess
of that amount over the then current
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirement shall be credited against subsequent Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements (and corresponding mandatory redemption obligations) in
the order directed by the Director of
Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole or in
part on any date, in integral multiples of $5,000, on the optional
redemption dates and at the redemption prices (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount
redeemed) specified in the Certificate of Award, plus, in each case,
accrued interest to the redemption
date. The first optional redemption
date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment Date, and the highest redemption price shall not be greater than
102% of the principal amount redeemed plus accrued interest to the
redemption date. Based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may determine
in the Certificate of Award that it
is in the best interests of the City
for some or all of the Bonds not to
be callable prior to their stated
maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the

The City Record
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar. That notice shall specify
the redemption date and the principal amount of each maturity of
Bonds to be redeemed, and shall be
given at least forty-five (45) days
prior to the redemption date or such
shorter period as shall be acceptable
to the Registrar. There shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date funds
sufficient to redeem at the redemption price all of the redeemable
Bonds for which notice of redemption has been given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided
in the Certificate of Award, the City
may elect to purchase Bonds called
for optional redemption in lieu of
redeeming those Bonds. That election shall be exercised by written
direction
from
the
Director
of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. That written direction shall state whether all or less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased by the City in lieu of
redemption, shall identify the Bonds
to be purchased by their maturity
date and shall specify the principal
amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased in lieu of redemption, the
amount of each maturity to be purchased shall be in amounts of $5,000
or integral multiples of $5,000. Any
Bonds called for optional redemption that are not to be purchased
shall be redeemed in accordance
with their redemption provisions.
The purchase price of the Bonds to
be purchased in lieu of redemption
shall be equal to the principal of,
any accrued but unpaid interest on,
and any premium that would have
been payable on the Bonds on the
redemption date if the Bonds had
been optionally redeemed instead of
being purchased. No notice of the
purchase in lieu of redemption is
required to be given to the owners
of the Bonds in addition to the
notice of redemption required by
this Ordinance. The Escrow Agent
or Registrar, as paying agent shall
not purchase Bonds if sufficient
moneys have not been deposited
with the Escrow Agent or Registrar,
as paying agent, by the City for the
purpose. On or prior to the scheduled date for optional redemption,
the City may rescind its direction to
purchase the Bonds in lieu of
redemption by written notice from
the Director of Finance to the Registrar and the Escrow Agent. In the
event that the direction to purchase
is rescinded, the Bonds shall be
redeemed on the redemption date set
forth in the notice of redemption
delivered to the owners of the Bonds
and in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption or Purchase. If fewer than all of the outstanding
Bonds
are
called
for
redemption at one time (whether for
redemption or purchase in lieu of
redemption), they shall be called in
the order of maturities directed by

2271

5
the Director of Finance. If fewer
than all Bonds of a single maturity
are to be redeemed or purchase in
lieu of redemption, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed or purchased,
or portions thereof in amounts of
$5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, shall be made by the Registrar
by lot in a manner determined by
the Registrar. In the case of a partial
redemption
or
purchase
of
Bonds by lot when Bonds of denominations greater than $5,000 are then
outstanding, each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as
though it were a separate Bond of
the denomination of $5,000. If it is
determined that one or more, but not
all of the $5,000 units of principal
amount represented by a Bond are
to be called for redemption, then
upon notice of redemption of a
$5,000 unit or units, the registered
owner of that Bond shall surrender
the Bond to the Registrar (i) for
payment of the redemption or purchase price of the $5,000 unit or
units called for redemption (including, without limitation, the interest
accrued
to
the
date
fixed
for
redemption and any premium), and
(ii) for issuance, without charge to
the registered owner thereof, of a
new Bond or Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal
amount equal to the unmatured portion of the Bond not redeemed or
purchased and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date as the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or
portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption (or such period specified in the Certificate of Award), to
the registered owner of each Bond
subject to redemption in whole or in
part
at
the
registered
owner’s
address shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at
the close of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing
and to any municipal bond insurance company that has issued a policy insuring some or all of the
Bonds. Failure to receive notice by
mail or any defect in that notice
regarding any Bond, however, shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any
Bond.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph, the Bonds and portions
thereof called for redemption shall
become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption of all of the Bonds and portions
thereof to be redeemed, including
interest accrued to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, and, if notice of

6
redemption has been deposited in
the mail, then from and after the
redemption date those Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall cease to bear interest and
no longer shall be considered to be
outstanding. If that money shall not
be so available on the redemption
date, or that notice shall not have
been deposited in the mail, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners and shall be
paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those
Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying agent. Principal shall be payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
date provided in the Agreement
authorized in Section 3 (the “Record
Date”). Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond
Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are
held by a Depository in a book entry
system (as described in Section 3),
debt charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance, except for the third paragraph of Section 13(a) (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 (pertaining generally to the periods during which the City is not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), will apply
to the Bonds. Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance
is included as a part of this Ordinance as fully as if restated in this
Ordinance. Words and terms not otherwise defined in this Ordinance
shall have the same meaning as set
forth in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by
the City’s Director of Finance. In
accordance with Section 9.96 of the

The City Record
Revised Code and the foregoing
requirement that each Bond bear the
manual signature of an authorized
officer of the Trustee, either or both
of the signatures of the City’s Mayor
or of its Director of Finance may be
a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may
be a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the
Director of Law shall prepare the
Bonds and shall endorse thereon his
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his manual or facsimile
signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Registrar”). The Escrow Agent shall also act as paying
agent for the Bonds so long as the
Bonds are held in a book entry system. The Director of Finance shall
sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, an agreement
among the City, the Registrar and
the Escrow Agent (the “Agreement”), approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, providing for services relating to the
registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of the Bonds on terms that
are approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City. That
approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Agreement by the Director of Finance.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
Agreement from the proceeds of the
Bonds to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). The person in whose name a
Bond is registered on the Bond Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon

2272

December 13, 2006
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository

December 13, 2006
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4.
Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Bonds and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance, the written advice
of a financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 20 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase
the Bonds, including: the principal
amount of the Bonds, final purchase
price (which shall be not less than
97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of
delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal installments are payable (at
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemp-

The City Record
tion Requirements), the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Bonds (if different from those set
forth in Section 2) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance
to be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest
of the City to establish the terms
and requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original
Purchaser
in
order
to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser,
to
give
all
appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the
Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments
and
to
take
such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Bonds. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver on
behalf of the City a bond purchase
agreement between the City and the
Original Purchaser (the “Bond Purchase Agreement”), approved as to
form and correctness by the Director of Law, setting forth the terms
and conditions on which the City
agrees to sell the Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy
the Bonds on terms consistent with
this Ordinance and not substantially adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Bond Purchase
Agreement or amendments to the
Bond Purchase Agreement by the
Director of Finance. It is determined
that the terms of the Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance and as may
be provided in or pursuant to the
Certificate of Award, are in the best
interest of the City and in compliance with all legal requirements.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 2007”
or such other designation as may be
set forth in the Certificate of Award.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes, a direct

2273

7
tax annually during the period the
Bonds
are
outstanding,
in
an
amount sufficient to provide for the
payment of that interest, when and
as the same shall fall due, and also
to discharge the principal of the
Bonds at maturity, which tax shall
not be less than the interest and
sinking fund tax required by Section
11 of Article XII of the Constitution
of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is ordered
computed,
certified,
levied
and
extended upon the tax duplicate and
collected by the same officers, in the
same manner and at the same time
that taxes for general purposes for
each of those years are certified,
extended and collected. The tax
shall be placed before and in preference to all other items and for the
full amount thereof. The funds
derived from those tax levies shall
be placed in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund as required by the
General Bond Ordinance, and those
funds, together with the interest collected on them shall be irrevocably
pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds
when and as the same fall due; provided, however, that, subject to the
provisions of Section 8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in each year to
the extent that revenues are available from other sources for the payment of the Bonds and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount
of such tax shall be reduced by the
amount of such revenues so available and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6.
Application of Proceeds. The proceeds from the sale of
the Bonds, except for accrued interest thereon and any premium, shall
be expended and applied for the
objects and purposes for which the
Bonds are issued. Accrued interest
and any premium received from the
sale of the Bonds shall be deposited
in
the
Unvoted
Tax
Supported
Obligations Account of the Sinking
Fund to be applied to the payment
of the principal of and interest on
the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and

8
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such

The City Record
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance
for unclaimed funds held by a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment of any Bond as described
in Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section
17(a) for unclaimed funds held by a
Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purpose set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Seventeen Million Nine Hundred ThirtyFive Thousand Dollars ($17,935,000)
(the “Notes”) upon the direction of
the Director of Finance to be set
forth in a certificate providing for
the final terms of the Notes and the
sale of the Notes and signed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”).
Section 10.
Term of the Notes.
The Notes: shall bear interest at
such rate, not exceeding six percent
(6%) per year, as may be fixed by
the Director of Finance of the City
in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall
be
dated
their
date
of
issuance; shall mature on the date
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five (5) years from such date of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of a financial
advisor, determines that it is in the
best interest of the City in order to
enhance the marketability of the
Notes, the Director of Finance may
cause
the
Notes
to
not
be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two
(2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated
“Bridges
and
Roadways
Improvement
Bond
Anticipation
Notes”; shall be issued in such numbers and denominations as may be
requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form
(which may be in a book entry only
system) in denominations of $5,000
or integral multiples thereof. Interest shall be payable semi-annually
on the dates set forth in the Note
Certificate of Award; provided that
if the Notes mature on or before the
end of the twelfth (12th) month following their date of issuance, interest on the Notes shall be payable at
maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note
Registrar”).
The
Escrow
Agent also shall act as paying
agent for the Notes if the Notes are
held in a book entry system. The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, an agreement among the
City, the Note Registrar and the
Escrow Agent (the “Note Registrar
Agreement”) providing for services
relating to the registration, transfer,
exchange and payment of Notes on
terms that are approved by the
Director of Finance on behalf of the
City. That approval shall be conclu-

2274

December 13, 2006
sively evidenced by the signing of
the Note Registrar Agreement by
the Director of Finance. The Director of Finance shall provide for the
payment of the services rendered
and for reimbursement of expenses
incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds
of the Notes to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this Ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid

December 13, 2006
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B), Revised Code, the Director of Finance
may combine the Notes with other
bond anticipation notes of the City
for purposes of their sale as a single issue to be designated “Various
Purpose General Obligation Bond
Anticipation Notes.” The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Notes are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 11.
Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
express upon their faces the purpose
for which they are issued and that
they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Each
Note
shall
be
authenticated by the manual signature of an authorized officer of the
Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance. In accordance with Section
9.96 of the Revised Code and the
foregoing requirement that each
Note bear the manual signature of
an authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or of its Director
of Finance may be a facsimile. The
Notes shall bear the seal of the City,
which seal may be a facsimile seal.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s
Charter, the Director of Law shall
prepare the Notes and shall endorse
thereon his approval of the form and
correctness thereof by his manual or
facsimile signature.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note
Purchaser”) in the principal amount
set forth in a certificate of award to
be executed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Notes and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are out-

The City Record
standing there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes. That tax shall be
and is ordered computed, certified,
levied and extended upon the tax
duplicate and collected by the same
officers, in the same manner and at
the same time that taxes for general purposes for each year are certified, extended and collected. That
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies required
by this Ordinance shall be placed in
the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account, and those funds,
together with the interest collected
on
them,
shall
be
irrevocably
pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of the Notes or the
Bonds in anticipation of which they
are issued, when and as the same
falls due; provided, however, that in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the Notes
and Bonds and are appropriated for
such purpose, the amount of such
direct tax upon all of the taxable
property in the City may be reduced
by the amount of such revenues so
available and appropriated.
Section 15. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a
disclosure document (each, an “Official Statement”) is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
sale of the Notes or the Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or
the Bonds, as the case may be, and
any necessary supplements and to
authorize the use and distribution of
each Official Statement and any supplements. The Mayor and the Director of Finance are authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in
their official capacities each Official
Statement
and
any
supplements
approved by them. Those officers
are, and each of them is, authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements as may,
in their judgment, be necessary or
appropriate. Those officers are also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final”
by the City within the meaning of
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12 the “SEC Rule.”)
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for services for the
production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as
the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
under the SEC Rule, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information and operating data and
notices, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of the SEC

2275

9
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to prepare, or cause to be prepared,
and to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Notes or the Bonds, as the case
may be, in accordance with the SEC
Rule.
The
performance
of
that
agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual appropriation to meet costs the
City would be required to incur to
perform it. The Director of Finance
is further authorized and directed to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section 18.
Federal Tax Covenants. The City covenants that it
will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
Code) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required of
it for the interest on the Notes and
the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken any
actions that would adversely affect
that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons
acting for it, will, among other acts

10
of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds
of the Notes and the Bonds to the
governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the yield on
investment property acquired with
those proceeds, (iii) make timely and
adequate payments to the federal
government, (iv) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports, and (v) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as
applicable, of property financed with
such proceeds, all in such manner
and to the extent necessary to assure
such exclusion of that interest under
the Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer
of the City having responsibility
for issuance of the Notes and the
Bonds is hereby authorized (a) to
make or effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent,
approval, or waiver on behalf of the
City with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds as the City is permitted
or required to make or give under
the federal income tax laws, including, without limitation thereto, any
of the elections provided for in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or
available under Section 148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon
or
assisting
compliance
with
requirements
for
that
purpose,
reducing the burden or expense of
such
compliance,
reducing
the
rebate
amount
or
payments
or
penalties, or making payments of
special amounts in lieu of making
computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as rebate, or
obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer, which action shall be in writing and signed by the officer, (b)
to take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make
payments,
and
make
or
give
reports, covenants and certifications of and on behalf of the City,
as may be appropriate to assure the
exclusion of interest from gross
income and the intended tax status
of the Notes and the Bonds, and (c)
to give one or more appropriate certificates of the City, for inclusion
in the transcript of proceedings for
the Notes and the Bonds, setting
forth the reasonable expectations of
the City regarding the amount and
use of all the proceeds of the Notes
and the Bonds, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on and the
tax status of the Notes and the
Bonds.

The City Record
Section 19.
Bond Insurance and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain a
commitment
for
municipal
bond
insurance issued by a nationally recognized municipal bond insurance
company
insuring
the
payment
when due of the principal of and
interest on all or any portion of the
Bonds, request a rating on the
Bonds from one or more nationally
recognized rating organizations, and
do any and all things and take any
and all actions required to secure a
policy of municipal bond insurance
and/or a rating or ratings on the
Bonds including, but not limited to,
the entering into of agreements on
behalf of the City necessary to
secure a policy of municipal bond
insurance. Those agreements may
be in separate documents or included in a Bond Purchase Agreement,
a registrar agreement or a Certificate of Award, or any combination,
and contain terms not materially
inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure that insurance or
obtain those ratings is authorized
and approved, and the Director of
Finance is authorized to provide for
the payment of any such amounts
from the proceeds of the Bonds to
the extent available and otherwise
from any other funds lawfully available that are appropriated or shall
be appropriated for that purpose.
Section 20.
Financial Advisor.
The Director of Finance may obtain
the services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to
assist the Director of Finance in
making any of the determinations
required by this Ordinance to be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Director of Finance
may rely on the written advice of
any financial advisor so retained.
Any
financial
advisor
employed
under the authority of this Ordinance shall be disinterested in the
transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers any other
party interested in the transaction.
Section 21.
Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance were taken, and
any of its committees and that all
deliberations of this Council that
resulted in these formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 22. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,

2276

December 13, 2006
and is represented and recited, that
the provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32,
33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to readings on
three separate days or dispensing
with such readings by a two-thirds
vote of all members of the Council),
36, 37, 48 and all other applicable provisions of the City’s Charter and the
rules of this Council have been fully
complied with and this Ordinance
was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 23.
Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy
of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of Award for the Bonds and
any Note Certificate of Award to the
County Auditor of Cuyahoga County
and to secure a receipt therefor.
Section 24. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is declared to be
an independent section or part of a
section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent,
it is declared to be the controlling
legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any
provision thereof, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such
provisions to any other person or
circumstance, other than those as to
which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared
to be the legislative intent that the
other provisions of this Ordinance
would have been passed independently of such section, or parts of a
section, so held to be invalid.
Section 25. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 26.
Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

December 13, 2006
Ord. No. 2071-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of Bonds
in the maximum principal amount of
$16,350,000 for the purpose of providing funds for improving buildings and structures housing and providing for the discharge of governmental functions and services otherwise benefiting the Public Safety,
Health and Welfare and authorizing
related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Sixteen
Million Three Hundred Fifty Thousand
Dollars
($16,350,000)
(the
“Bonds”) to finance the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is seventeen
(17) years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance of unvoted general obligations of the City, with the specific
terms of each series of Bonds to be
contained in ordinances authorizing
the issuance of Bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Bonds is necessary
to provide funds to pay the costs of
certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section 1 that are
urgently needed for the benefit of
the City, and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes
an
emergency
measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety, and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Sixteen Million Three Hundred
Fifty
Thousand
Dollars
($16,350,000) for the purpose of providing funds constructing, reconstructing, rehabilitating, installing,
renovating, enlarging and otherwise
improving buildings and structures
housing and providing for the discharge of governmental functions
and services otherwise benefiting
the public safety, health and welfare, including facilities in, of and
for the City Hall, police stations,
fire stations, service stations, centers and facilities, waste collection,
West Side Market facilities, transfer
and disposal facilities, correctional

The City Record
facilities, and health and other
facilities, and the provision of necessary fixtures, furnishings, equipment, appurtenances, utilities, and
site improvements for the purpose,
and to pay any capitalized interest
and all expenses incurred in connection with the issuance of the
securities, including all financing
costs within the meaning of Section
133.01(K) of the Revised Code and
such other costs of the foregoing
permanent improvements that may
be financed with the proceeds of
securities as permitted by Section
133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised Code
and as otherwise permitted by law.
Section 2.
Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance for the purpose stated in
Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated “Public Facilities Improvement Bonds” and may contain such
further designation as provided in
the Certificate of Award identified
below. The Bonds shall be issued in
one lot as fully registered Bonds in
denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
March 1, 2007, or such other date,
but in no event later than December
31, 2008, specified in the certificate
of award providing for the final
terms of the Bonds and the sale of
the Bonds signed by the Director of
Finance in accordance with this
Ordinance
(the
“Certificate
of
Award”). The Bonds shall be issued
in the principal amount specified in
the Certificate of Award, which
shall not exceed the amount stated
in Section 1. The Bonds shall bear
interest from their date until the
principal amount is paid at the rate
or rates per year specified in the
Certificate of Award, provided that
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed six percent (6%) per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable semi-annually on May 15
and November 15 of each year,
beginning November 15, 2007, or on
such other dates specified in the
Certificate of Award as the dates on
which interest on the Bonds shall be
payable
(the
“Interest
Payment
Dates”).
The
Bonds
shall
mature
on
November 15 in seventeen (17) substantially equal annual installments,
beginning November 15, 2007, or
according to the schedule set forth
in the Certificate of Award, provided that (i) each principal payment
shall occur on an Interest Payment
Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be no earlier than November 15, 2007 and no
later than December 31, 2009, (iii)
the final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than seventeen
(17) years from that date which is
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made, and (iv) the prin-

2277

11
cipal
amount
thereof
shall
be
payable in annual installments such
that the total principal and interest
payments on the Bonds in any fiscal year in which principal is
payable is not more than three times
the amount of those payments in
any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the “Mandatory Redemption Dates”)
on which the principal amount of
the Term Bonds shall be payable
pursuant to mandatory sinking fund
installments rather than at stated
maturity and the amount of principal to be paid on each Mandatory
Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption or purchase prior to stated maturity as follows:
(a) Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements (less
the amount of any credit as provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and corresponding mandatory redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed

12
(other than through the operation of
the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements)
or
purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent
of the principal amount thereof
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation). Any excess
of that amount over the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and corresponding mandatory redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole or in part
on any date, in integral multiples of
$5,000, on the optional redemption
dates and at the redemption prices
(expressed as a percentage of the
principal amount redeemed) specified in the Certificate of Award, plus,
in each case, accrued interest to the
redemption date. The first optional
redemption date shall not be later
than ten years from the first Interest Payment Date, and the highest
redemption price shall not be greater
than 102% of the principal amount
redeemed plus accrued interest to the
redemption date. Based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may determine
in the Certificate of Award that it is
in the best interests of the City for
some or all of the Bonds not to be
callable prior to their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar. That notice shall specify
the redemption date and the principal amount of each maturity of
Bonds to be redeemed, and shall be
given at least forty-five (45) days
prior to the redemption date or such
shorter period as shall be acceptable
to the Registrar. There shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date funds
sufficient to redeem at the redemption price all of the redeemable
Bonds for which notice of redemption has been given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided
in the Certificate of Award, the City
may elect to purchase Bonds called
for optional redemption in lieu of
redeeming those Bonds. That election shall be exercised by written
direction
from
the
Director
of

The City Record
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. That written direction shall state whether all or less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased by the City in lieu of
redemption, shall identify the Bonds
to be purchased by their maturity
date and shall specify the principal
amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased in lieu of redemption, the
amount of each maturity to be purchased shall be in amounts of $5,000
or integral multiples of $5,000. Any
Bonds called for optional redemption that are not to be purchased
shall be redeemed in accordance
with their redemption provisions.
The purchase price of the Bonds to
be purchased in lieu of redemption
shall be equal to the principal of,
any accrued but unpaid interest on,
and any premium that would have
been payable on the Bonds on the
redemption date if the Bonds had
been optionally redeemed instead of
being purchased. No notice of the
purchase in lieu of redemption is
required to be given to the owners
of the Bonds in addition to the
notice of redemption required by
this Ordinance. The Escrow Agent
or Registrar, as paying agent shall
not purchase Bonds if sufficient
moneys have not been deposited
with the Escrow Agent or Registrar,
as paying agent, by the City for the
purpose. On or prior to the scheduled date for optional redemption,
the City may rescind its direction to
purchase the Bonds in lieu of
redemption by written notice from
the Director of Finance to the Registrar and the Escrow Agent. In the
event that the direction to purchase
is rescinded, the Bonds shall be
redeemed on the redemption date set
forth in the notice of redemption
delivered to the owners of the Bonds
and in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption or Purchase. If fewer than all of the outstanding
Bonds
are
called
for
redemption at one time (whether for
redemption or purchase in lieu of
redemption), they shall be called in
the order of maturities directed by
the Director of Finance. If fewer
than all Bonds of a single maturity
are to be redeemed or purchase in
lieu of redemption, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed or purchased,
or portions thereof in amounts of
$5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, shall be made by the Registrar
by lot in a manner determined by
the Registrar. In the case of a partial
redemption
or
purchase
of
Bonds by lot when Bonds of denominations greater than $5,000 are then
outstanding, each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as
though it were a separate Bond of
the denomination of $5,000. If it is
determined that one or more, but not
all of the $5,000 units of principal
amount represented by a Bond are
to be called for redemption, then
upon notice of redemption of a
$5,000 unit or units, the registered
owner of that Bond shall surrender
the Bond to the Registrar (i) for
payment of the redemption or purchase price of the $5,000 unit or

2278

December 13, 2006
units called for redemption (including, without limitation, the interest
accrued
to
the
date
fixed
for
redemption and any premium), and
(ii) for issuance, without charge to
the registered owner thereof, of a
new Bond or Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal
amount equal to the unmatured portion of the Bond not redeemed or
purchased and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date as the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii) the
redemption price to be paid, (iii) the
date fixed for redemption, and (iv)
the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given by
the Registrar on behalf of the City
by mailing a copy of the redemption
notice by first class mail, postage
prepaid, at least thirty (30) days
prior to the date fixed for redemption (or such period specified in the
Certificate of Award), to the registered owner of each Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at the
registered owner’s address shown on
the Bond Register maintained by the
Registrar at the close of business on
the fifteenth day preceding that
mailing and to any municipal bond
insurance company that has issued a
policy insuring some or all of the
Bonds. Failure to receive notice by
mail or any defect in that notice
regarding any Bond, however, shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any
Bond.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph, the Bonds and portions
thereof called for redemption shall
become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption of all of the Bonds and portions
thereof to be redeemed, including
interest accrued to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail, then from and after the
redemption date those Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall cease to bear interest and
no longer shall be considered to be
outstanding. If that money shall not
be so available on the redemption
date, or that notice shall not have
been deposited in the mail, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners and shall be
paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those
Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the

December 13, 2006
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying agent. Principal shall be payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
date provided in the Agreement
authorized in Section 3 (the “Record
Date”). Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond
Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are
held by a Depository in a book entry
system (as described in Section 3),
debt charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance, except for the third paragraph of Section 13(a) (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 (pertaining generally to the periods during which the City is not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), will apply
to the Bonds. Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance
is included as a part of this Ordinance as fully as if restated in this
Ordinance. Words and terms not
otherwise defined in this Ordinance
shall have the same meaning as set
forth in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by
the City’s Director of Finance. In
accordance with Section 9.96 of the
Revised Code and the foregoing
requirement that each Bond bear the
manual signature of an authorized
officer of the Trustee, either or both
of the signatures of the City’s Mayor
or of its Director of Finance may be
a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may
be a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the
Director of Law shall prepare the
Bonds and shall endorse thereon his
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his manual or facsimile
signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Registrar”). The Escrow Agent shall also act as paying
agent for the Bonds so long as the
Bonds are held in a book entry sys-

The City Record
tem. The Director of Finance shall
sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, an agreement
among the City, the Registrar and
the Escrow Agent (the “Agreement”), approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, providing for services relating to the
registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of the Bonds on terms that
are approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City. That
approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Agreement by the Director of Finance.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
Agreement from the proceeds of the
Bonds to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). The person in whose name a
Bond is registered on the Bond Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person;
neither the City nor the Registrar
shall be affected by any notice to
the contrary, but the registration
may be changed as provided in this
Section. All such payments shall be
valid and effectual to satisfy and
discharge the City’s liability upon
the Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of

2279

13
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance
to be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record
ownership
of
beneficial
interests in Bonds or the principal
and interest, and to effect transfers
of Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for

14
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4.
Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Bonds and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance, the written advice
of a financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 20 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase
the Bonds, including: the principal
amount of the Bonds, final purchase
price (which shall be not less than
97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of
delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal installments are payable (at
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Bonds (if different from those set
forth in Section 2) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance
to be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest
of the City to establish the terms
and requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the

The City Record
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, procedures,
and conditions for the delivery of
the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices
and certificates, to cause a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Bonds
to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and
other documents and instruments
and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated
by this Ordinance and to take all
steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement between the
City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, setting forth
the terms and conditions on which
the City agrees to sell the Bonds
and the Original Purchaser agrees
to buy the Bonds on terms consistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement
by
the
Director
of
Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in
this Ordinance and as may be provided in or pursuant to the Certificate of Award, are in the best interest of the City and in compliance
with all legal requirements.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 2007”
or such other designation as may be
set forth in the Certificate of Award.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes, a direct
tax annually during the period the
Bonds
are
outstanding,
in
an
amount sufficient to provide for the
payment of that interest, when and
as the same shall fall due, and also
to discharge the principal of the
Bonds at maturity, which tax shall
not be less than the interest and
sinking fund tax required by Section
11 of Article XII of the Constitution
of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is ordered
computed, certified, levied and extended upon the tax duplicate and
collected by the same officers, in the
same manner and at the same time
that taxes for general purposes for

2280

December 13, 2006
each of those years are certified,
extended and collected. The tax
shall be placed before and in preference to all other items and for the
full amount thereof. The funds
derived from those tax levies shall
be placed in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund as required by the
General Bond Ordinance, and those
funds, together with the interest collected on them shall be irrevocably
pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds
when and as the same fall due; provided, however, that, subject to the
provisions of Section 8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in each year to
the extent that revenues are available from other sources for the payment of the Bonds and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount
of such tax shall be reduced by the
amount of such revenues so available and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6.
Application of Proceeds. The proceeds from the sale of
the Bonds, except for accrued interest thereon and any premium, shall
be expended and applied for the
objects and purposes for which the
Bonds are issued. Accrued interest
and any premium received from the
sale of the Bonds shall be deposited
in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the Sinking Fund
to be applied to the payment of the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) here-

December 13, 2006
of) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation to be of such
maturities
and
interest
payment
dates and to bear such interest, without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal amount
thereof or the interest earnings
therefrom (likewise to be held in
trust and committed, except as hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient, together with moneys referred
to in (i) above, for the payment, at
their maturities or redemption dates,
of all debt charges on the Bonds to
their date of maturity or redemption,
as the case may be, or if default in
such payment shall have occurred on
such date then to the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that
if any Bonds are to be redeemed
prior to the maturity thereof, notice
of such redemption shall have been
duly given or irrevocable provision
satisfactory to the Trustee shall
have been duly made for the giving
of such notice. Any moneys held by
the Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States
of
America
maturing,
or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be transferred at the time of such determination as provided in Section 17(a)
of the General Bond Ordinance for
unclaimed funds held by a Paying
Agent. In the event of nonpresentment of any Bond as described in
Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant
to this Section shall be held and paid
as provided in said Section 17(a) for
unclaimed funds held by a Paying
Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purpose set forth in

The City Record
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Sixteen
Million Three Hundred Fifty Thousand
Dollars ($16,350,000) (the “Notes”) upon
the direction of the Director of
Finance to be set forth in a certificate providing for the final terms of
the Notes and the sale of the Notes
and signed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
Section 10.
Term of the Notes.
The Notes: shall bear interest at
such rate, not exceeding six percent
(6%) per year, as may be fixed by
the Director of Finance of the City
in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall be dated their date of issuance; shall mature on the date set
forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five (5) years from such date of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of a financial
advisor, determines that it is in the
best interest of the City in order to
enhance the marketability of the
Notes, the Director of Finance may
cause
the
Notes
to
not
be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two
(2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated
“Public
Facilities
Improvement Bond Anticipation Notes”;
shall be issued in such numbers and
denominations as may be requested
by the Note Purchaser (hereinafter
defined); and shall be issued in
fully registered form (which may be
in a book entry only system) in
denominations of $5,000 or integral
multiples thereof. Interest shall be
payable semi-annually on the dates
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award; provided that if the Notes
mature on or before the end of the
twelfth (12th) month following their
date of issuance, interest on the
Notes shall be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note
Registrar”).
The
Escrow
Agent also shall act as paying
agent for the Notes if the Notes are
held in a book entry system. The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, an agreement among the
City, the Note Registrar and the
Escrow Agent (the “Note Registrar
Agreement”) providing for services
relating to the registration, transfer,
exchange and payment of Notes on
terms that are approved by the
Director of Finance on behalf of the
City. That approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Note Registrar Agreement by
the Director of Finance. The Director of Finance shall provide for the
payment of the services rendered
and for reimbursement of expenses
incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds
of the Notes to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to main-

2281

15
tain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this Ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B), Revised Code, the Director of Finance
may combine the Notes with other
bond anticipation notes of the City
for purposes of their sale as a single issue to be designated “Various
Purpose General Obligation Bond

16
Anticipation Notes.” The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Notes are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 11.
Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
express upon their faces the purpose
for which they are issued and that
they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Each
Note
shall
be
authenticated by the manual signature of an authorized officer of the
Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance. In accordance with Section
9.96 of the Revised Code and the
foregoing requirement that each
Note bear the manual signature of
an authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or of its Director
of Finance may be a facsimile. The
Notes shall bear the seal of the City,
which seal may be a facsimile seal.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s
Charter, the Director of Law shall
prepare the Notes and shall endorse
thereon his approval of the form and
correctness thereof by his manual or
facsimile signature.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note
Purchaser”) in the principal amount
set forth in a certificate of award to
be executed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Notes and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes. That tax shall be
and is ordered computed, certified,

The City Record
levied and extended upon the tax
duplicate and collected by the same
officers, in the same manner and at
the same time that taxes for general purposes for each year are certified, extended and collected. That
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies required
by this Ordinance shall be placed in
the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account, and those funds,
together with the interest collected
on
them,
shall
be
irrevocably
pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of the Notes or the
Bonds in anticipation of which they
are issued, when and as the same
falls due; provided, however, that in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the Notes
and Bonds and are appropriated for
such purpose, the amount of such
direct tax upon all of the taxable
property in the City may be reduced
by the amount of such revenues so
available and appropriated.
Section 15.
Official Statement;
Continuing Disclosure. If, in the
judgment of the Director of Finance,
a disclosure document (each, an
“Official Statement”) is appropriate
or necessary in connection with the
sale of the Notes or the Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or
the Bonds, as the case may be, and
any necessary supplements and to
authorize the use and distribution of
each Official Statement and any supplements. The Mayor and the Director of Finance are authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in
their official capacities each Official
Statement and any supplements approved by them. Those officers are,
and each of them is, authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements as may,
in their judgment, be necessary or
appropriate. Those officers are also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final”
by the City within the meaning of
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12 the “SEC Rule.”)
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for services for the
production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as
the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
under the SEC Rule, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information and operating data and
notices, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of the SEC
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment

2282

December 13, 2006
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to prepare, or cause to be prepared,
and to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Notes or the Bonds, as the case
may be, in accordance with the SEC
Rule.
The
performance
of
that
agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual appropriation to meet costs the
City would be required to incur to
perform it. The Director of Finance
is further authorized and directed to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section 18.
Federal Tax Covenants. The City covenants that it
will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
Code) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required of
it for the interest on the Notes and
the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken any
actions that would adversely affect
that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons
acting for it, will, among other acts
of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds
of the Notes and the Bonds to the
governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the yield on

December 13, 2006
investment property acquired with
those proceeds, (iii) make timely and
adequate payments to the federal
government, (iv) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports, and (v) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as
applicable, of property financed with
such proceeds, all in such manner
and to the extent necessary to assure
such exclusion of that interest under
the Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds (and,
if different, the original issue and
any refunding issues in a series of
refundings), to the extent such compliance is necessary to assure exclusion of interest on the Notes and the
Bonds from gross income for federal
income tax purposes, and the officers
identified above are authorized to
take actions with respect to those
issues as they are authorized in this
section to take with respect to the
Notes and the Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer
of the City having responsibility
for issuance of the Notes and the
Bonds is hereby authorized (a) to
make or effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent,
approval, or waiver on behalf of the
City with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds as the City is permitted
or required to make or give under
the federal income tax laws, including, without limitation thereto, any
of the elections provided for in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or
available under Section 148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon
or
assisting
compliance
with
requirements
for
that
purpose,
reducing the burden or expense of
such
compliance,
reducing
the
rebate
amount
or
payments
or
penalties, or making payments of
special amounts in lieu of making
computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as rebate, or
obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer, which action shall be in writing and signed by the officer, (b)
to take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make
payments,
and
make
or
give
reports, covenants and certifications of and on behalf of the City,
as may be appropriate to assure the
exclusion of interest from gross
income and the intended tax status
of the Notes and the Bonds, and (c)
to give one or more appropriate certificates of the City, for inclusion
in the transcript of proceedings for
the Notes and the Bonds, setting
forth the reasonable expectations of
the City regarding the amount and
use of all the proceeds of the Notes
and the Bonds, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on and the
tax status of the Notes and the
Bonds.
Section 19.
Bond Insurance and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best inter-

The City Record
ests of the City, based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain a
commitment
for
municipal
bond
insurance issued by a nationally recognized municipal bond insurance
company
insuring
the
payment
when due of the principal of and
interest on all or any portion of the
Bonds, request a rating on the
Bonds from one or more nationally
recognized rating organizations, and
do any and all things and take any
and all actions required to secure a
policy of municipal bond insurance
and/or a rating or ratings on the
Bonds including, but not limited to,
the entering into of agreements on
behalf of the City necessary to
secure a policy of municipal bond
insurance. Those agreements may
be in separate documents or included in a Bond Purchase Agreement,
a registrar agreement or a Certificate of Award, or any combination,
and contain terms not materially
inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure that insurance or
obtain those ratings is authorized
and approved, and the Director of
Finance is authorized to provide for
the payment of any such amounts
from the proceeds of the Bonds to
the extent available and otherwise
from any other funds lawfully available that are appropriated or shall
be appropriated for that purpose.
Section 20.
Financial Advisor.
The Director of Finance may obtain
the services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to
assist the Director of Finance in
making any of the determinations
required by this Ordinance to be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Director of Finance
may rely on the written advice of
any financial advisor so retained.
Any
financial
advisor
employed
under the authority of this Ordinance shall be disinterested in the
transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers any other
party interested in the transaction.
Section 21.
Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance were taken, and
any of its committees and that all
deliberations of this Council that
resulted in these formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 22. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is represented and recited, that
the provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32,

2283

17
33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to readings on
three separate days or dispensing
with such readings by a two-thirds
vote of all members of the Council),
36, 37, 48 and all other applicable
provisions of the City’s Charter and
the rules of this Council have been
fully complied with and this Ordinance was passed in conformity
therewith.
Section 23.
Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy
of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of Award for the Bonds and
any Note Certificate of Award to the
County Auditor of Cuyahoga County
and to secure a receipt therefor.
Section 24. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is declared to be
an independent section or part of a
section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent,
it is declared to be the controlling
legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any
provision thereof, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such
provisions to any other person or
circumstance, other than those as to
which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared
to be the legislative intent that the
other provisions of this Ordinance
would have been passed independently of such section, or parts of a
section, so held to be invalid.
Section 25. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 26.
Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law, Committee on Finance.

18
Ord. No. 2072-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of Bonds
in the maximum principal amount of
$3,075,000 for the purpose of providing funds to revitalize lands and
authorizing related matters.
Whereas, Article VIII, Section 2o
of the Constitution of the State of
Ohio, enacted November 7, 2000, provides that revitalization purposes
and provisions for them are proper
public purposes of municipalities
and are necessary and appropriate
means to improve the quality of life
and the general and economic-well
being of the people of the State;
and
Whereas, revitalization purposes
are defined in Article VIII, Section
2o as meaning providing for and
enabling the environmentally safe
and productive development and use
or reuse of publicly and privately
owned lands, including those within
urban areas, by the remediation or
clean up, or planning and assessment for remediation or clean up, of
contamination, or addressing, by
clearance, land acquisition or assembly, infrastructure, or otherwise,
that or other property conditions or
circumstances that may be deleterious to the public health and safety
and the environment and water and
other natural resources, or that preclude or inhibit environmentally
sound or economic use or reuse of
the property; and
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Three Million Seventy-Five Thousand Dollars
($3,075,000) (the “Bonds”) to provide
funds for the revitalization purposes in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is twenty-five
(25) years; and
Whereas,
this
Council
passed
Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8,
1980, and thereafter amended that
ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance of unvoted general obligations of the City, with the specific terms of each series of Bonds to
be contained in ordinances authorizing the issuance of Bonds in
accordance
with
the
provisions
thereof (the “Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Bonds is necessary
to provide funds to pay the costs
described in Section 1 for revitalization projects that are urgently
needed for the benefit of the City,
and as a result, this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,

The City Record
health and safety, and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Three Million Seventy-Five
Thousand Dollars ($3,075,000) for
the purpose of providing funds for
the demolition of structures on publicly and privately owned lands in
the City and the clearance, remediation and clean up of those lands to
enable the environmentally safe and
productive development and use or
reuse of those lands, including planning and assessment, land acquisition or assembly, and infrastructure,
and to pay all expenses incurred in
connection with the issuance of the
securities, including all financing
costs within the meaning of Section
133.01(K) of the Revised Code and
such
other
costs
that
may
be
financed with the proceeds of securities as permitted by law.
Section 2.
Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance for the purpose stated in
Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated
“Revitalization
Improvement Bonds” and may contain such
further designation as provided in
the Certificate of Award identified
below. The Bonds shall be issued in
one lot as fully registered Bonds in
denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
March 1, 2007, or such other date,
but in no event later than December
31, 2008, specified in the certificate
of award providing for the final
terms of the Bonds and the sale of
the Bonds signed by the Director of
Finance in accordance with this
Ordinance
(the
“Certificate
of
Award”). The Bonds shall be issued
in the principal amount specified in
the Certificate of Award, which
shall not exceed the amount stated
in Section 1. The Bonds shall bear
interest from their date until the
principal amount is paid at the rate
or rates per year specified in the
Certificate of Award, provided that
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed six percent (6%) per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable semi-annually on May 15
and November 15 of each year,
beginning November 15, 2007, or on
such other dates specified in the
Certificate of Award as the dates on
which interest on the Bonds shall be
payable
(the
“Interest
Payment
Dates”).
The
Bonds
shall
mature
on
November 15 in twenty-five (25) substantially equal annual installments,
beginning November 15, 2007, or
according to the schedule set forth
in the Certificate of Award, provided that (i) each principal payment
shall occur on an Interest Payment

2284

December 13, 2006
Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be no earlier than November 15, 2007 and no
later than December 31, 2009, (iii)
the final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than twenty-five
(25) years from that date which is
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount
thereof
shall
be
payable in annual installments such
that the total principal and interest
payments on the Bonds in any fiscal year in which principal is
payable is not more than three times
the amount of those payments in
any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the “Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption or purchase prior to stated maturity as follows:
(a) Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and corresponding mandatory re-

December 13, 2006
demption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements)
or
purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole or in
part on any date, in integral multiples of $5,000, on the optional redemption dates and at the redemption prices (expressed as a percentage
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed) specified in the Certificate of Award, plus, in each case,
accrued interest to the redemption
date. The first optional redemption
date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment Date, and the highest redemption price shall not be greater than
102% of the principal amount redeemed plus accrued interest to the
redemption date. Based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may determine
in the Certificate of Award that it
is in the best interests of the City
for some or all of the Bonds not to
be callable prior to their stated
maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds,
or portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements of paragraph (a).
The Bonds shall be redeemed pursuant to this paragraph only upon
written notice from the Director of
Finance to the Registrar. That
notice shall specify the redemption
date and the principal amount of
each maturity of Bonds to be
redeemed, and shall be given at
least forty-five (45) days prior to
the redemption date or such shorter period as shall be acceptable to
the
Registrar.
There
shall
be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date funds
sufficient to redeem at the redemption price all of the redeemable
Bonds for which notice of redemption has been given.

The City Record
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided
in the Certificate of Award, the City
may elect to purchase Bonds called
for optional redemption in lieu of
redeeming those Bonds. That election shall be exercised by written
direction
from
the
Director
of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. That written direction shall state whether all or less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased by the City in lieu of
redemption, shall identify the Bonds
to be purchased by their maturity
date and shall specify the principal
amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased in lieu of redemption, the
amount of each maturity to be purchased shall be in amounts of $5,000
or integral multiples of $5,000. Any
Bonds called for optional redemption that are not to be purchased
shall be redeemed in accordance
with their redemption provisions.
The purchase price of the Bonds to
be purchased in lieu of redemption
shall be equal to the principal of,
any accrued but unpaid interest on,
and any premium that would have
been payable on the Bonds on the
redemption date if the Bonds had
been optionally redeemed instead of
being purchased. No notice of the
purchase in lieu of redemption is
required to be given to the owners
of the Bonds in addition to the
notice of redemption required by
this Ordinance. The Escrow Agent
or Registrar, as paying agent shall
not purchase Bonds if sufficient
moneys have not been deposited
with the Escrow Agent or Registrar,
as paying agent, by the City for the
purpose. On or prior to the scheduled date for optional redemption,
the City may rescind its direction to
purchase the Bonds in lieu of
redemption by written notice from
the Director of Finance to the Registrar and the Escrow Agent. In the
event that the direction to purchase
is rescinded, the Bonds shall be
redeemed on the redemption date set
forth in the notice of redemption
delivered to the owners of the Bonds
and in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption or Purchase. If fewer than all of the outstanding
Bonds
are
called
for
redemption at one time (whether for
redemption or purchase in lieu of
redemption), they shall be called in
the order of maturities directed by
the Director of Finance. If fewer
than all Bonds of a single maturity
are to be redeemed or purchase in
lieu of redemption, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed or purchased,
or portions thereof in amounts of
$5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, shall be made by the Registrar
by lot in a manner determined by
the Registrar. In the case of a partial
redemption
or
purchase
of
Bonds by lot when Bonds of denominations greater than $5,000 are then
outstanding, each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as
though it were a separate Bond of
the denomination of $5,000. If it is
determined that one or more, but not
all of the $5,000 units of principal
amount represented by a Bond are
to be called for redemption, then

2285

19
upon notice of redemption of a
$5,000 unit or units, the registered
owner of that Bond shall surrender
the Bond to the Registrar (i) for
payment of the redemption or purchase price of the $5,000 unit or
units called for redemption (including, without limitation, the interest
accrued
to
the
date
fixed
for
redemption and any premium), and
(ii) for issuance, without charge to
the registered owner thereof, of a
new Bond or Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal
amount equal to the unmatured portion of the Bond not redeemed or
purchased and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date as the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii) the
redemption price to be paid, (iii) the
date fixed for redemption, and (iv)
the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given by
the Registrar on behalf of the City
by mailing a copy of the redemption
notice by first class mail, postage
prepaid, at least thirty (30) days
prior to the date fixed for redemption (or such period specified in the
Certificate of Award), to the registered owner of each Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at the
registered owner’s address shown on
the Bond Register maintained by the
Registrar at the close of business on
the fifteenth day preceding that
mailing and to any municipal bond
insurance company that has issued a
policy insuring some or all of the
Bonds. Failure to receive notice by
mail or any defect in that notice
regarding any Bond, however, shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any
Bond.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph, the Bonds and portions
thereof called for redemption shall
become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption of all of the Bonds and portions
thereof to be redeemed, including
interest accrued to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail, then from and after the
redemption date those Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall cease to bear interest and
no longer shall be considered to be
outstanding. If that money shall not
be so available on the redemption
date, or that notice shall not have
been deposited in the mail, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners and shall be
paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those
Bonds.

20
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying agent. Principal shall be payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
date provided in the Agreement
authorized in Section 3 (the “Record
Date”). Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond
Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are
held by a Depository in a book entry
system (as described in Section 3),
debt charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance, except for the third paragraph of Section 13(a) (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 (pertaining generally to the periods during which the City is not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), will apply
to the Bonds. Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance
is included as a part of this Ordinance as fully as if restated in this
Ordinance. Words and terms not otherwise defined in this Ordinance
shall have the same meaning as set
forth in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by
the City’s Director of Finance. In
accordance with Section 9.96 of the
Revised Code and the foregoing
requirement that each Bond bear the
manual signature of an authorized
officer of the Trustee, either or both
of the signatures of the City’s Mayor
or of its Director of Finance may be
a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may
be a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the
Director of Law shall prepare the
Bonds and shall endorse thereon his
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his manual or facsimile
signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Registrar”). The Escrow Agent shall also act as paying

The City Record
agent for the Bonds so long as the
Bonds are held in a book entry system. The Director of Finance shall
sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, an agreement
among the City, the Registrar and
the Escrow Agent (the “Agreement”), approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, providing for services relating to the
registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of the Bonds on terms that
are approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City. That
approval shall be conclusively evidenced
by
the
signing
of
the
Agreement
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Agreement from the
proceeds of the Bonds to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). The person in whose name a
Bond is registered on the Bond Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the
new Bonds are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Bonds exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Registrar shall authenticate and

2286

December 13, 2006
deliver Bonds in accordance with
the provisions of this Ordinance.
The exchange or transfer shall be
without charge to the owner, except
that the City and Registrar may
make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any tax or other
governmental charge required to be
paid with respect to the exchange
or transfer. The City or the Registrar
may
require
that
those
charges, if any, be paid before the
procedure
is
begun
for
the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under
this ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered upon that exchange or
transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be trans-

December 13, 2006
ferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4.
Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Bonds and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance, the written advice
of a financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 20 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase
the Bonds, including: the principal
amount of the Bonds, final purchase
price (which shall be not less than
97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of
delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal installments are payable (at
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Bonds (if different from those set
forth in Section 2) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance
to be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest
of the City to establish the terms
and requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrange-

The City Record
ments as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, procedures,
and conditions for the delivery of
the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices
and certificates, to cause a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Bonds
to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and
other documents and instruments
and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated
by this Ordinance and to take all
steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement between the
City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, setting forth
the terms and conditions on which
the City agrees to sell the Bonds
and the Original Purchaser agrees
to buy the Bonds on terms consistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement
by
the
Director
of
Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in
this Ordinance and as may be provided in or pursuant to the Certificate of Award, are in the best interest of the City and in compliance
with all legal requirements.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 2007”
or such other designation as may be
set forth in the Certificate of Award.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes, a direct
tax annually during the period the
Bonds
are
outstanding,
in
an
amount sufficient to provide for the
payment of that interest, when and
as the same shall fall due, and also
to discharge the principal of the
Bonds at maturity, which tax shall
not be less than the interest and
sinking fund tax required by Section
11 of Article XII of the Constitution
of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is ordered
computed, certified, levied and extended upon the tax duplicate and
collected by the same officers, in the
same manner and at the same time

2287

21
that taxes for general purposes for
each of those years are certified,
extended and collected. The tax
shall be placed before and in preference to all other items and for the
full amount thereof. The funds
derived from those tax levies shall
be placed in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund as required by the
General Bond Ordinance, and those
funds, together with the interest collected on them shall be irrevocably
pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds
when and as the same fall due; provided, however, that, subject to the
provisions of Section 8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in each year to
the extent that revenues are available from other sources for the payment of the Bonds and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount
of such tax shall be reduced by the
amount of such revenues so available and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6.
Application of Proceeds. The proceeds from the sale of
the Bonds, except for accrued interest thereon and any premium, shall
be expended and applied for the
objects and purposes for which the
Bonds are issued. Accrued interest
and any premium received from the
sale of the Bonds shall be deposited
in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the Sinking Fund
to be applied to the payment of the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordi-

22
nance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance
for unclaimed funds held by a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment of any Bond as described
in Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section
17(a) for unclaimed funds held by a
Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the

The City Record
Bonds for the purpose set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Three
Million Seventy-Five Thousand Dollars ($3,075,000) (the “Notes”) upon
the direction of the Director of
Finance to be set forth in a certificate providing for the final terms of
the Notes and the sale of the Notes
and signed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”).
Section 10.
Term of the Notes.
The Notes: shall bear interest at
such rate, not exceeding six percent
(6%) per year, as may be fixed by
the Director of Finance of the City
in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall
be
dated
their
date
of
issuance; shall mature on the date
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five (5) years from such date of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of a financial
advisor, determines that it is in the
best interest of the City in order to
enhance the marketability of the
Notes, the Director of Finance may
cause
the
Notes
to
not
be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two
(2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated
“Revitalization
Improvement Bond Anticipation Notes”; shall
be issued in such numbers and
denominations as may be requested
by the Note Purchaser (hereinafter
defined); and shall be issued in
fully registered form (which may be
in a book entry only system) in
denominations of $5,000 or integral
multiples thereof. Interest shall be
payable semi-annually on the dates
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award; provided that if the Notes
mature on or before the end of the
twelfth (12th) month following their
date of issuance, interest on the
Notes shall be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note
Registrar”).
The
Escrow
Agent also shall act as paying
agent for the Notes if the Notes are
held in a book entry system. The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, an agreement among the
City, the Note Registrar and the
Escrow Agent (the “Note Registrar
Agreement”) providing for services
relating to the registration, transfer,
exchange and payment of Notes on
terms that are approved by the
Director of Finance on behalf of the
City. That approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Note Registrar Agreement by
the Director of Finance. The Director of Finance shall provide for the
payment of the services rendered
and for reimbursement of expenses
incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds
of the Notes to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to main-

2288

December 13, 2006
tain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this Ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Revised
Code,
the
Director
of
Finance may combine the Notes
with other bond anticipation notes
of the City for purposes of their sale
as a single issue to be designated
“Various Purpose General Obligation
Bond Anticipation Notes.” The Notes
shall contain a summary statement

December 13, 2006
of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the Notes are issued
and shall state that they are issued
pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 11.
Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
express upon their faces the purpose
for which they are issued and that
they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Each
Note
shall
be
authenticated by the manual signature of an authorized officer of the
Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance. In accordance with Section
9.96 of the Revised Code and the
foregoing requirement that each
Note bear the manual signature of
an authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or of its Director
of Finance may be a facsimile. The
Notes shall bear the seal of the City,
which seal may be a facsimile seal.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s
Charter, the Director of Law shall
prepare the Notes and shall endorse
thereon his approval of the form and
correctness thereof by his manual or
facsimile signature.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note
Purchaser”) in the principal amount
set forth in a certificate of award to
be executed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Notes and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes. That tax shall be
and is ordered computed, certified,
levied and extended upon the tax
duplicate and collected by the same
officers, in the same manner and at
the same time that taxes for gener-

The City Record
al purposes for each year are certified, extended and collected. That
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies required
by this Ordinance shall be placed in
the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account, and those funds,
together with the interest collected
on
them,
shall
be
irrevocably
pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of the Notes or the
Bonds in anticipation of which they
are issued, when and as the same
falls due; provided, however, that in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the Notes
and Bonds and are appropriated for
such purpose, the amount of such
direct tax upon all of the taxable
property in the City may be reduced
by the amount of such revenues so
available and appropriated.
Section 15. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a
disclosure document (each, an “Official Statement”) is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
sale of the Notes or the Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or
the Bonds, as the case may be, and
any necessary supplements and to
authorize the use and distribution of
each Official Statement and any supplements. The Mayor and the Director of Finance are authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in
their official capacities each Official
Statement and any supplements approved by them. Those officers are,
and each of them is, authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements as may,
in their judgment, be necessary or
appropriate. Those officers are also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final”
by the City within the meaning of
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12 the “SEC Rule.”)
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for services for the
production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as
the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
under the SEC Rule, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information and operating data and
notices, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of the SEC
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to prepare, or cause to be prepared,
and to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, a contin-

2289

23
uing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Notes or the Bonds, as the case
may be, in accordance with the SEC
Rule.
The
performance
of
that
agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual appropriation to meet costs the
City would be required to incur to
perform it. The Director of Finance
is further authorized and directed to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section 18.
Federal Tax Covenants. The City covenants that it
will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
Code) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or
persons acting for it, will, among
other acts of compliance, (i) apply
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds to the governmental purpose
of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the
yield
on
investment
property
acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)

24
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds, and, as applicable,
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Notes and
the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes
and the Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 19.
Bond Insurance and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the

The City Record
Director of Finance may obtain a
commitment
for
municipal
bond
insurance issued by a nationally recognized municipal bond insurance
company
insuring
the
payment
when due of the principal of and
interest on all or any portion of the
Bonds, request a rating on the
Bonds from one or more nationally
recognized rating organizations, and
do any and all things and take any
and all actions required to secure a
policy of municipal bond insurance
and/or a rating or ratings on the
Bonds including, but not limited to,
the entering into of agreements on
behalf of the City necessary to
secure a policy of municipal bond
insurance. Those agreements may
be in separate documents or included in a Bond Purchase Agreement,
a registrar agreement or a Certificate of Award, or any combination,
and contain terms not materially
inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure that insurance or
obtain those ratings is authorized
and approved, and the Director of
Finance is authorized to provide for
the payment of any such amounts
from the proceeds of the Bonds to
the extent available and otherwise
from any other funds lawfully available that are appropriated or shall
be appropriated for that purpose.
Section 20.
Financial Advisor.
The Director of Finance may obtain
the services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to
assist the Director of Finance in
making any of the determinations
required by this Ordinance to be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Director of Finance
may rely on the written advice of
any financial advisor so retained.
Any
financial
advisor
employed
under the authority of this Ordinance shall be disinterested in the
transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers any other
party interested in the transaction.
Section 21.
Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance were taken, and
any of its committees and that all
deliberations of this Council that
resulted in these formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 22. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is represented and recited, that
the provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32,
33 (including the provisions of Sec-

2290

December 13, 2006
tion 33 with respect to readings on
three separate days or dispensing
with such readings by a two-thirds
vote of all members of the Council),
36, 37, 48 and all other applicable
provisions of the City’s Charter and
the rules of this Council have been
fully complied with and this Ordinance was passed in conformity
therewith.
Section 23.
Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy
of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of Award for the Bonds and
any Note Certificate of Award to the
County Auditor of Cuyahoga County
and to secure a receipt therefor.
Section 24. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is declared to be
an independent section or part of a
section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent,
it is declared to be the controlling
legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any
provision thereof, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such
provisions to any other person or
circumstance, other than those as to
which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared
to be the legislative intent that the
other provisions of this Ordinance
would have been passed independently of such section, or parts of a
section, so held to be invalid.
Section 25. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 26.
Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain revitalization projects which are urgently needed for
the benefit of the City and for the
usual daily operation of a municipal
department, and, provided this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all members elected
to Council, it shall take effect and
be in force immediately upon its
passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law, Committee on Finance.

December 13, 2006
Ord. No. 2073-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of Bonds
in the maximum principal amount of
$2,825,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve municipal
parks and recreation facilities and
authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Two Million Eight Hundred Twenty-Five
Thousand Dollars ($2,825,000) (the
“Bonds”) to finance the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is nineteen
(19) years; and
Whereas,
this
Council
passed
Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8,
1980, and thereafter amended that
ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance of unvoted general obligations of the City, with the specific
terms of each series of Bonds to be
contained in ordinances authorizing
the issuance of Bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Bonds is necessary
to provide funds to pay the costs of
certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section 1 that are
urgently needed for the benefit of
the City, and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes
an
emergency
measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety, and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Two Million Eight Hundred
Twenty-Five
Thousand
Dollars
($2,825,000) for the purpose of providing funds to improve municipal
parks and recreation facilities by
constructing, reconstructing, rehabilitating,
installing,
renovating,
enlarging and otherwise improving
parks and recreation centers and
areas, pools, skating rinks, greenhouses, bicycle paths, playgrounds,
playfields, tracks, fields and related
buildings,
structures,
walkways,
pavement and facilities, and providing
necessary
water
systems,
drainage, lighting, signage, fixtures,
furnishings, equipment, safety modifications and site improvements,
together with all necessary and incidental appurtenances and the acquisition of any required real estate

The City Record
and interests in real estate and the
demolition of any existing buildings,
structures,
walkways
and
facilities, and to pay any capitalized
interest and all expenses incurred in
connection with the issuance of the
securities, including all financing
costs within the meaning of Section
133.01(K) of the Revised Code and
such other costs of the foregoing
permanent improvements that may
be financed with the proceeds of
securities as permitted by Section
133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised Code
and as otherwise permitted by law.
Section 2.
Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance for the purpose stated in
Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated
“Parks
and
Recreation
Facilities Improvement Bonds” and
may contain such further designation as provided in the Certificate of
Award identified below. The Bonds
shall be issued in one lot as fully
registered Bonds in denominations
of $5,000 or any integral multiple
thereof. The Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director
of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
March 1, 2007, or such other date,
but in no event later than December
31, 2008, specified in the certificate
of award providing for the final
terms of the Bonds and the sale of
the Bonds signed by the Director of
Finance in accordance with this
Ordinance
(the
“Certificate
of
Award”). The Bonds shall be issued
in the principal amount specified in
the Certificate of Award, which
shall not exceed the amount stated
in Section 1. The Bonds shall bear
interest from their date until the
principal amount is paid at the rate
or rates per year specified in the
Certificate of Award, provided that
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed six percent (6%) per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable semi-annually on May 15
and November 15 of each year,
beginning November 15, 2007, or on
such other dates specified in the
Certificate of Award as the dates on
which interest on the Bonds shall be
payable
(the
“Interest
Payment
Dates”).
The
Bonds
shall
mature
on
November 15 in nineteen (19) substantially equal annual installments,
beginning November 15, 2007, or
according to the schedule set forth
in the Certificate of Award, provided that (i) each principal payment
shall occur on an Interest Payment
Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be no earlier than November 15, 2007 and no
later than December 31, 2009, (iii)
the final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than nineteen (19)
years from that date which is
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount
thereof
shall
be

2291

25
payable in annual installments such
that the total principal and interest
payments on the Bonds in any fiscal year in which principal is
payable is not more than three times
the amount of those payments in
any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the “Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption or purchase prior to stated maturity as follows:
(a) Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and corresponding mandatory redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of

26
the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements)
or
purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent
of the principal amount thereof
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation). Any excess
of that amount over the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole or in
part on any date, in integral multiples of $5,000, on the optional redemption dates and at the redemption prices (expressed as a percentage
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed) specified in the Certificate of Award, plus, in each case,
accrued interest to the redemption
date. The first optional redemption
date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment Date, and the highest redemption price shall not be greater than
102%
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed plus accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor, the Director of Finance may
determine
in
the
Certificate
of
Award that it is in the best interests of the City for some or all of
the Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar. That notice shall specify
the redemption date and the principal amount of each maturity of
Bonds to be redeemed, and shall be
given at least forty-five (45) days
prior to the redemption date or such
shorter period as shall be acceptable
to the Registrar. There shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date funds
sufficient to redeem at the redemption price all of the redeemable
Bonds
for
which
notice
of
redemption has been given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided
in the Certificate of Award, the City
may elect to purchase Bonds called
for optional redemption in lieu of
redeeming those Bonds. That election shall be exercised by written
direction
from
the
Director
of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. That written direc-

The City Record
tion shall state whether all or less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased by the City in lieu of
redemption, shall identify the Bonds
to be purchased by their maturity
date and shall specify the principal
amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased in lieu of redemption, the
amount of each maturity to be purchased shall be in amounts of $5,000
or integral multiples of $5,000. Any
Bonds called for optional redemption that are not to be purchased
shall be redeemed in accordance
with their redemption provisions.
The purchase price of the Bonds to
be purchased in lieu of redemption
shall be equal to the principal of,
any accrued but unpaid interest on,
and any premium that would have
been payable on the Bonds on the
redemption date if the Bonds had
been optionally redeemed instead of
being purchased. No notice of the
purchase in lieu of redemption is
required to be given to the owners
of the Bonds in addition to the
notice of redemption required by
this Ordinance. The Escrow Agent
or Registrar, as paying agent shall
not purchase Bonds if sufficient
moneys have not been deposited
with the Escrow Agent or Registrar,
as paying agent, by the City for the
purpose. On or prior to the scheduled date for optional redemption,
the City may rescind its direction to
purchase the Bonds in lieu of
redemption by written notice from
the Director of Finance to the Registrar and the Escrow Agent. In the
event that the direction to purchase
is rescinded, the Bonds shall be
redeemed on the redemption date set
forth in the notice of redemption
delivered to the owners of the Bonds
and in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption or Purchase. If fewer than all of the outstanding
Bonds
are
called
for
redemption at one time (whether for
redemption or purchase in lieu of
redemption), they shall be called in
the order of maturities directed by
the Director of Finance. If fewer
than all Bonds of a single maturity
are to be redeemed or purchase in
lieu of redemption, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed or purchased,
or portions thereof in amounts of
$5,000
or
any
integral
multiple
thereof, shall be made by the Registrar by lot in a manner determined
by the Registrar. In the case of a
partial redemption or purchase of
Bonds by lot when Bonds of denominations greater than $5,000 are then
outstanding, each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as
though it were a separate Bond of
the denomination of $5,000. If it is
determined that one or more, but not
all of the $5,000 units of principal
amount represented by a Bond are
to be called for redemption, then
upon notice of redemption of a
$5,000 unit or units, the registered
owner of that Bond shall surrender
the Bond to the Registrar (i) for
payment of the redemption or purchase price of the $5,000 unit or
units called for redemption (including, without limitation, the interest
accrued
to
the
date
fixed
for
redemption and any premium), and

2292

December 13, 2006
(ii) for issuance, without charge to
the registered owner thereof, of a
new Bond or Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal
amount equal to the unmatured portion of the Bond not redeemed or
purchased and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date as the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption (or such period specified in the Certificate of Award), to
the registered owner of each Bond
subject to redemption in whole or in
part
at
the
registered
owner’s
address shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at
the close of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing
and to any municipal bond insurance company that has issued a policy insuring some or all of the
Bonds. Failure to receive notice by
mail or any defect in that notice
regarding any Bond, however, shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any
Bond.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph, the Bonds and portions
thereof called for redemption shall
become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption of all of the Bonds and portions
thereof to be redeemed, including
interest accrued to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail, then from and after the
redemption date those Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall cease to bear interest and
no longer shall be considered to be
outstanding. If that money shall not
be so available on the redemption
date, or that notice shall not have
been deposited in the mail, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held by the Registrar for the redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners and shall be
paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those
Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying agent. Principal shall be payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of

December 13, 2006
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
date provided in the Agreement
authorized in Section 3 (the “Record
Date”). Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond
Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are
held by a Depository in a book entry
system (as described in Section 3),
debt charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance, except for the third paragraph of Section 13(a) (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 (pertaining generally to the periods during which the City is not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), will apply
to the Bonds. Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance
is included as a part of this Ordinance as fully as if restated in this
Ordinance. Words and terms not otherwise defined in this Ordinance
shall have the same meaning as set
forth in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by
the City’s Director of Finance. In
accordance with Section 9.96 of the
Revised Code and the foregoing
requirement that each Bond bear the
manual signature of an authorized
officer of the Trustee, either or both
of the signatures of the City’s Mayor
or of its Director of Finance may be
a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may
be a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the
Director of Law shall prepare the
Bonds and shall endorse thereon his
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his manual or facsimile
signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Registrar”). The Escrow Agent shall also act as paying
agent for the Bonds so long as the
Bonds are held in a book entry system. The Director of Finance shall
sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, an agreement
among the City, the Registrar and
the Escrow Agent (the “Agreement”), approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, pro-

The City Record
viding for services relating to the
registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of the Bonds on terms that
are approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City. That
approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Agreement by the Director of Finance.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
Agreement from the proceeds of the
Bonds to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). The person in whose name a
Bond is registered on the Bond Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that

2293

27
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance
to be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of

28
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4.
Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Bonds and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance, the written advice
of a financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 20 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase
the Bonds, including: the principal
amount of the Bonds, final purchase
price (which shall be not less than
97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of
delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal installments are payable (at
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Bonds (if different from those set
forth in Section 2) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance
to be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest
of the City to establish the terms
and requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, procedures,
and conditions for the delivery of
the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices
and certificates, to cause a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Bonds
to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and

The City Record
other documents and instruments
and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated
by this Ordinance and to take all
steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement between the
City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, setting forth
the terms and conditions on which
the City agrees to sell the Bonds
and the Original Purchaser agrees
to buy the Bonds on terms consistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement
by
the
Director
of
Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in
this Ordinance and as may be provided in or pursuant to the Certificate of Award, are in the best interest of the City and in compliance
with all legal requirements.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 2007”
or such other designation as may be
set forth in the Certificate of Award.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes, a direct
tax annually during the period the
Bonds
are
outstanding,
in
an
amount sufficient to provide for the
payment of that interest, when and
as the same shall fall due, and also
to discharge the principal of the
Bonds at maturity, which tax shall
not be less than the interest and
sinking fund tax required by Section
11 of Article XII of the Constitution
of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is ordered
computed, certified, levied and extended upon the tax duplicate and
collected by the same officers, in the
same manner and at the same time
that taxes for general purposes for
each of those years are certified,
extended and collected. The tax
shall be placed before and in preference to all other items and for the
full amount thereof. The funds
derived from those tax levies shall
be placed in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund as required by the
General Bond Ordinance, and those
funds, together with the interest col-

2294

December 13, 2006
lected on them shall be irrevocably
pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds
when and as the same fall due; provided, however, that, subject to the
provisions of Section 8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in each year to
the extent that revenues are available from other sources for the payment of the Bonds and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount
of such tax shall be reduced by the
amount of such revenues so available and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6.
Application of Proceeds. The proceeds from the sale of
the Bonds, except for accrued interest thereon and any premium, shall
be expended and applied for the
objects and purposes for which the
Bonds are issued. Accrued interest
and any premium received from the
sale of the Bonds shall be deposited
in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the Sinking Fund
to be applied to the payment of the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record

December 13, 2006
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance
for unclaimed funds held by a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment of any Bond as described
in Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section
17(a) for unclaimed funds held by a
Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purpose set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Two Million Eight Hundred Twenty-Five
Thousand Dollars ($2,825,000) (the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth
in a certificate providing for the

The City Record
final terms of the Notes and the sale
of the Notes and signed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”).
Section 10.
Term of the Notes.
The Notes shall bear interest at
such rate, not exceeding six percent
(6%) per year, as may be fixed by
the Director of Finance of the City
in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall
be
dated
their
date
of
issuance; shall mature on the date
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five (5) years from such date of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of a financial
advisor, determines that it is in the
best interest of the City in order to
enhance the marketability of the
Notes, the Director of Finance may
cause
the
Notes
to
not
be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two
(2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated
“Parks
and
Recreation
Facilities Improvement Bond Anticipation Notes”; shall be issued in
such numbers and denominations as
may be requested by the Note Purchaser (hereinafter defined); and
shall be issued in fully registered
form (which may be in a book entry
only system) in denominations of
$5,000 or integral multiples thereof.
Interest shall be payable semi-annually on the dates set forth in the
Note Certificate of Award; provided
that if the Notes mature on or before
the end of the twelfth (12th) month
following their date of issuance,
interest on the Notes shall be
payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note
Registrar”).
The
Escrow
Agent also shall act as paying
agent for the Notes if the Notes are
held in a book entry system. The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, an agreement among the
City, the Note Registrar and the
Escrow Agent (the “Note Registrar
Agreement”) providing for services
relating to the registration, transfer,
exchange and payment of Notes on
terms that are approved by the
Director of Finance on behalf of the
City. That approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Note Registrar Agreement by
the Director of Finance. The Director of Finance shall provide for the
payment of the services rendered
and for reimbursement of expenses
incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds
of the Notes to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). The person in

2295

29
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this Ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B), Revised Code, the Director of Finance
may combine the Notes with other
bond anticipation notes of the City
for purposes of their sale as a single issue to be designated “Various
Purpose General Obligation Bond
Anticipation Notes.” The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Notes are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.

30
Section 11.
Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
express upon their faces the purpose
for which they are issued and that
they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Each
Note
shall
be
authenticated by the manual signature of an authorized officer of the
Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance. In accordance with Section
9.96 of the Revised Code and the
foregoing requirement that each
Note bear the manual signature of
an authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or of its Director
of Finance may be a facsimile. The
Notes shall bear the seal of the City,
which seal may be a facsimile seal.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s
Charter, the Director of Law shall
prepare the Notes and shall endorse
thereon his approval of the form and
correctness thereof by his manual or
facsimile signature.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note
Purchaser”) in the principal amount
set forth in a certificate of award to
be executed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Notes and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes. That tax shall be
and is ordered computed, certified,
levied and extended upon the tax
duplicate and collected by the same
officers, in the same manner and at
the same time that taxes for general purposes for each year are certified, extended and collected. That
tax shall be placed before and in

The City Record
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies required
by this Ordinance shall be placed in
the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account, and those funds,
together with the interest collected
on
them,
shall
be
irrevocably
pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of the Notes or the
Bonds in anticipation of which they
are issued, when and as the same
falls due; provided, however, that in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the Notes
and Bonds and are appropriated for
such purpose, the amount of such
direct tax upon all of the taxable
property in the City may be reduced
by the amount of such revenues so
available and appropriated.
Section 15. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a
disclosure document (each, an “Official Statement”) is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
sale of the Notes or the Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or
the Bonds, as the case may be, and
any necessary supplements and to
authorize the use and distribution of
each Official Statement and any supplements. The Mayor and the Director of Finance are authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in
their official capacities each Official
Statement and any supplements approved by them. Those officers are,
and each of them is, authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements as may,
in their judgment, be necessary or
appropriate. Those officers are also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final”
by the City within the meaning of
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12 the “SEC Rule.”)
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for services for the
production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as
the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
under the SEC Rule, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information and operating data and
notices, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of the SEC
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to prepare, or cause to be prepared,
and to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the

2296

December 13, 2006
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Notes or the Bonds, as the case
may be, in accordance with the SEC
Rule.
The
performance
of
that
agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual appropriation to meet costs the
City would be required to incur to
perform it. The Director of Finance
is further authorized and directed to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section 18.
Federal Tax Covenants. The City covenants that it
will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
Code) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or
persons acting for it, will, among
other acts of compliance, (i) apply
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds to the governmental purpose
of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the
yield on investment property acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and

December 13, 2006
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds, and, as applicable,
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Notes and
the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes
and the Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 19.
Bond Insurance and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain a
commitment
for
municipal
bond

The City Record
insurance issued by a nationally recognized municipal bond insurance
company
insuring
the
payment
when due of the principal of and
interest on all or any portion of the
Bonds, request a rating on the
Bonds from one or more nationally
recognized rating organizations, and
do any and all things and take any
and all actions required to secure a
policy of municipal bond insurance
and/or a rating or ratings on the
Bonds including, but not limited to,
the entering into of agreements on
behalf of the City necessary to
secure a policy of municipal bond
insurance. Those agreements may
be in separate documents or included in a Bond Purchase Agreement,
a registrar agreement or a Certificate of Award, or any combination,
and contain terms not materially
inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure that insurance or
obtain those ratings is authorized
and approved, and the Director of
Finance is authorized to provide for
the payment of any such amounts
from the proceeds of the Bonds to
the extent available and otherwise
from any other funds lawfully available that are appropriated or shall
be appropriated for that purpose.
Section 20.
Financial Advisor.
The Director of Finance may obtain
the services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to
assist the Director of Finance in
making any of the determinations
required by this Ordinance to be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Director of Finance
may rely on the written advice of
any financial advisor so retained.
Any
financial
advisor
employed
under the authority of this Ordinance shall be disinterested in the
transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers any other
party interested in the transaction.
Section 21.
Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance were taken, and
any of its committees and that all
deliberations of this Council that
resulted in these formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 22. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is represented and recited, that
the provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32,
33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to readings on

2297

31
three separate days or dispensing
with such readings by a two-thirds
vote of all members of the Council),
36, 37, 48 and all other applicable
provisions of the City’s Charter and
the rules of this Council have been
fully complied with and this Ordinance was passed in conformity
therewith.
Section 23.
Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy
of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of Award for the Bonds and
any Note Certificate of Award to the
County Auditor of Cuyahoga County
and to secure a receipt therefor.
Section 24. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is declared to be
an independent section or part of a
section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent,
it is declared to be the controlling
legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any
provision thereof, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such
provisions to any other person or
circumstance, other than those as to
which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared
to be the legislative intent that the
other provisions of this Ordinance
would have been passed independently of such section, or parts of a
section, so held to be invalid.
Section 25. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 26.
Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law, Committee on Finance.

32
Ord. No. 2074-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of Bonds
in the maximum principal amount of
$2,050,000 for the purpose of providing funds to pay final judgments,
including court-approved settlements,
and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Two Million
Fifty
Thousand
Dollars
($2,050,000) (the “Bonds”) to provide
funds
to
pay
final
judgments,
including
court-approved
settlements of claims; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the City
is unable, within the limits of its
other funds that have been appropriated and are available for the
purpose, to pay the final judgments
for which the Bonds are to be
issued, that the maximum maturity
of the Bonds is December 31, 2031;
and
Whereas,
this
Council
passed
Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8,
1980, and thereafter amended that
ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance of unvoted general obligations of the City, with the specific terms of each series of Bonds to
be contained in ordinances authorizing the issuance of Bonds in
accordance
with
the
provisions
thereof (the “Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Bonds is necessary
to provide funds to pay the costs of
certain final judgments, including
court-approved settlements, that are
urgently needed for the benefit of
the City, and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes
an
emergency
measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety, and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Two Million Fifty Thousand
Dollars ($2,050,000) for the purpose
of providing funds to pay final judgments,
including
settlements
of
claims approved by a court, and to
pay any capitalized interest and all
expenses
incurred
in
connection
with the issuance of the securities,
including all financing costs within
the meaning of Section 133.01(K) of
the Revised Code.
Section 2.
Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other

The City Record
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance for the purpose stated in
Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated “Final Judgment Bonds”
and may contain such further designation as provided in the Certificate of Award identified below. The
Bonds shall be issued in one lot as
fully registered Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds shall be
numbered as determined by the
Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
March 1, 2007, or such other date,
but in no event later than December
31, 2008, specified in the certificate
of award providing for the final
terms of the Bonds and the sale of
the Bonds signed by the Director of
Finance in accordance with this
Ordinance
(the
“Certificate
of
Award”). The Bonds shall be issued
in the principal amount specified in
the Certificate of Award, which
shall not exceed the amount stated
in Section 1. The Bonds shall bear
interest from their date until the
principal amount is paid at the rate
or rates per year specified in the
Certificate of Award, provided that
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed six percent (6%) per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable semi-annually on May 15
and November 15 of each year,
beginning November 15, 2007, or on
such other dates specified in the
Certificate of Award as the dates on
which interest on the Bonds shall be
payable
(the
“Interest
Payment
Dates”).
The
Bonds
shall
mature
on
November 15 in twenty-five (25)
substantially equal annual installments,
beginning
November
15,
2007, or according to the schedule
set forth in the Certificate of
Award, provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an
Interest Payment Date, (ii) the
first principal payment on the
Bonds shall be no earlier than
November 15, 2007 and no later
than December 31, 2009, (iii) the
final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than twenty-five
(25) years from that date which is
twelve months prior to the first
date on which provision for payment of principal is made, and (iv)
the principal amount thereof shall
be payable in annual installments
such that the total principal and
interest payments on the Bonds in
any fiscal year in which principal
is payable is not more than three
times the amount of those payments in any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be

2298

December 13, 2006
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the “Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption or purchase prior to stated maturity as follows:
(a) Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the
principal
amount
thereof
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that amount over the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement shall be

December 13, 2006
credited against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory redemption obligations)
in the order directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole or in
part on any date, in integral multiples of $5,000, on the optional
redemption dates and at the redemption prices (expressed as a percentage
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed) specified in the Certificate of Award, plus, in each case,
accrued interest to the redemption
date. The first optional redemption
date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment Date, and the highest redemption price shall not be greater than
102%
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed plus accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor, the Director of Finance may
determine
in
the
Certificate
of
Award that it is in the best interests of the City for some or all of
the Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds,
or portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar. That notice shall specify
the redemption date and the principal amount of each maturity of
Bonds to be redeemed, and shall be
given at least forty-five (45) days
prior to the redemption date or such
shorter period as shall be acceptable to the Registrar. There shall
be deposited with the Registrar on
or prior to the redemption date
funds sufficient to redeem at the
redemption
price
all
of
the
redeemable Bonds for which notice
of redemption has been given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided
in the Certificate of Award, the
City may elect to purchase Bonds
called for optional redemption in
lieu of redeeming those Bonds.
That election shall be exercised by
written direction from the Director
of Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. That written direction shall state whether all or less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased by the City in lieu of
redemption,
shall
identify
the
Bonds to be purchased by their
maturity date and shall specify the
principal amount of each maturity
to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less than all of the Bonds
called for optional redemption are
to be purchased in lieu of redemption, the amount of each maturity
to be purchased shall be in amounts
of $5,000 or integral multiples of

The City Record
$5,000. Any Bonds called for optional redemption that are not to be
purchased shall be redeemed in
accordance with their redemption
provisions. The purchase price of
the Bonds to be purchased in lieu
of redemption shall be equal to the
principal
of,
any
accrued
but
unpaid interest on, and any premium that would have been payable
on the Bonds on the redemption
date if the Bonds had been optionally redeemed instead of being purchased. No notice of the purchase
in lieu of redemption is required to
be given to the owners of the Bonds
in addition to the notice of redemption required by this Ordinance.
The Escrow Agent or Registrar, as
paying agent shall not purchase
Bonds if sufficient moneys have not
been deposited with the Escrow
Agent
or
Registrar,
as
paying
agent, by the City for the purpose.
On or prior to the scheduled date
for optional redemption, the City
may rescind its direction to purchase the Bonds in lieu of redemption by written notice from the
Director of Finance to the Registrar and the Escrow Agent. In the
event that the direction to purchase
is rescinded, the Bonds shall be
redeemed on the redemption date
set forth in the notice of redemption delivered to the owners of the
Bonds and in accordance with the
provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption or Purchase. If fewer than all of the outstanding
Bonds
are
called
for
redemption at one time (whether
for redemption or purchase in lieu
of redemption), they shall be called
in the order of maturities directed
by the Director of Finance. If fewer
than all Bonds of a single maturity are to be redeemed or purchase
in lieu of redemption, the selection
of Bonds to be redeemed or purchased,
or
portions
thereof
in
amounts of $5,000 or any integral
multiple thereof, shall be made by
the Registrar by lot in a manner
determined by the Registrar. In the
case of a partial redemption or purchase of Bonds by lot when Bonds
of
denominations
greater
than
$5,000 are then outstanding, each
$5,000 unit of principal thereof shall
be treated as though it were a separate Bond of the denomination of
$5,000. If it is determined that one
or more, but not all of the $5,000
units of principal amount represented by a Bond are to be called
for redemption, then upon notice of
redemption of a $5,000 unit or units,
the registered owner of that Bond
shall surrender the Bond to the
Registrar (i) for payment of the
redemption or purchase price of the
$5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured portion of the Bond not
redeemed or purchased and bearing
interest at the same rate and
maturing on the same date as the
Bond surrendered.

2299

33
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption (or such period specified in the Certificate of Award), to
the registered owner of each Bond
subject to redemption in whole or in
part
at
the
registered
owner’s
address shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at
the close of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing
and to any municipal bond insurance company that has issued a policy insuring some or all of the
Bonds. Failure to receive notice by
mail or any defect in that notice
regarding any Bond, however, shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any
Bond.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph, the Bonds and portions
thereof called for redemption shall
become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption of all of the Bonds and portions
thereof to be redeemed, including
interest accrued to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail, then from and after the
redemption date those Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall cease to bear interest and
no longer shall be considered to be
outstanding. If that money shall not
be so available on the redemption
date, or that notice shall not have
been deposited in the mail, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners and shall be
paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those
Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying agent. Principal shall be payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section

34
3) at the close of business on the
date provided in the Agreement
authorized in Section 3 (the “Record
Date”). Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond
Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are
held by a Depository in a book entry
system (as described in Section 3),
debt charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance, except for the third paragraph of Section 13(a) (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 (pertaining generally to the periods during which the City is not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), will apply
to the Bonds. Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance
is included as a part of this Ordinance as fully as if restated in this
Ordinance. Words and terms not otherwise defined in this Ordinance
shall have the same meaning as set
forth in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by
the City’s Director of Finance. In
accordance with Section 9.96 of the
Revised Code and the foregoing
requirement that each Bond bear the
manual signature of an authorized
officer of the Trustee, either or both
of the signatures of the City’s Mayor
or of its Director of Finance may be
a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may
be a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the
Director of Law shall prepare the
Bonds and shall endorse thereon his
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his manual or facsimile
signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Registrar”). The Escrow Agent shall also act as paying
agent for the Bonds so long as the
Bonds are held in a book entry system. The Director of Finance shall
sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, an agreement
among the City, the Registrar and
the Escrow Agent (the “Agreement”), approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, providing for services relating to the
registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of the Bonds on terms that
are approved by the Director of

The City Record
Finance on behalf of the City. That
approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Agreement by the Director of Finance.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
Agreement from the proceeds of the
Bonds to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). The person in whose name a
Bond is registered on the Bond Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before

2300

December 13, 2006
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a
book entry system is utilized: (i)
the Bonds may be issued in the
form of a single, fully registered
Bond representing each maturity
and registered in the name of the
Depository or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in
the custody of the Depository; (ii)
the beneficial owners in book entry
form shall have no right to receive
Bonds in the form of physical securities or certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book
entry form shall be shown by book
entry on the system maintained and
operated by the Depository and its
Participants, and transfers of the
ownership of beneficial interests
shall be made only by book entry
by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv) the Bonds as such
shall
not
be
transferable
or
exchangeable, except for transfer
to another Depository or to another
nominee of a Depository, without
further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a

December 13, 2006
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4.
Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Bonds and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance, the written advice
of a financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 20 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase
the Bonds, including: the principal
amount of the Bonds, final purchase
price (which shall be not less than
97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of
delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal installments are payable (at
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Bonds (if different from those set
forth in Section 2) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance
to be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest
of the City to establish the terms
and requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, procedures,
and conditions for the delivery of
the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices

The City Record
and certificates, to cause a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Bonds
to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and
other documents and instruments
and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated
by this Ordinance and to take all
steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement between the
City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, setting forth
the terms and conditions on which
the City agrees to sell the Bonds
and the Original Purchaser agrees
to buy the Bonds on terms consistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement
by
the
Director
of
Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in
this Ordinance and as may be provided in or pursuant to the Certificate of Award, are in the best interest of the City and in compliance
with all legal requirements.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes, a direct
tax annually during the period the
Bonds
are
outstanding,
in
an
amount sufficient to provide for the
payment of that interest, when and
as the same shall fall due, and also
to discharge the principal of the
Bonds at maturity, which tax shall
not be less than the interest and
sinking fund tax required by Section
11 of Article XII of the Constitution
of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is ordered
computed,
certified,
levied
and
extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the
same time that taxes for general
purposes for each of those years
are certified, extended and collected. The tax shall be placed before
and in preference to all other items
and for the full amount thereof.
The funds derived from those tax
levies shall be placed in the Unvoted
Tax
Supported
Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as
required by the General Bond Ordinance, and those funds, together
with the interest collected on them
shall be irrevocably pledged for the
payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds when and as the
same fall due; provided, however,
that, subject to the provisions of
Section 8 of the General Bond Ordi-

2301

35
nance, in each year to the extent
that revenues are available from
other sources for the payment of
the Bonds and are appropriated for
such purpose, the amount of such
tax shall be reduced by the amount
of such revenues so available and
appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6.
Application of Proceeds. The proceeds from the sale of
the Bonds, except for accrued interest thereon and any premium, shall
be expended and applied for the
objects and purposes for which the
Bonds are issued. Accrued interest
and any premium received from the
sale of the Bonds shall be deposited
in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the Sinking Fund
to be applied to the payment of the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds.
Section 7.
General Obligation.
The Bonds are secured by a pledge
and lien on a parity with the
pledges and liens authorized by the
General Bond Ordinance and, in
addition to the taxes and revenues
specifically pledged pursuant to
this Ordinance and the General
Bond
Ordinance
and
the
other
covenants, terms and agreements
provided hereunder and in the General Bond Ordinance to secure payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds, the City hereby
determines, declares, warrants and
covenants that the Bonds are general obligations of the City and
that the full faith and credit of the
City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.

36
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations of the United States certified
by an independent public accounting firm of national reputation to
be of such maturities and interest
payment dates and to bear such
interest, without further investment
or reinvestment of either the principal amount thereof or the interest
earnings therefrom (likewise to be
held in trust and committed, except
as hereinafter provided), as will be
sufficient, together with moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on
the Bonds to their date of maturity
or redemption, as the case may be,
or if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by
the Escrow Agent in accordance
with the provisions of this Section
shall be invested by the Escrow
Agent in direct obligations of the
United States of America maturing,
or redeemable at the option of the
holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed
by the Director of Finance. Any
income or interest earned by, or
increment to, the investments held
under this Section shall, to the
extent determined from time to
time by the Escrow Agent to be in
excess of the amount required to be
held by it for the purposes of this
Section, be transferred at the time
of such determination as provided
in Section 17(a) of the General
Bond
Ordinance
for
unclaimed
funds held by a Paying Agent. In
the event of nonpresentment of any
Bond as described in Section 17(a)
of the General Bond Ordinance, the
moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held and paid as provided in said Section 17(a) for
unclaimed funds held by a Paying
Agent.
Section 9.
Bond Anticipation
Notes. For the purpose of raising
money
in
anticipation
of
the
issuance of the Bonds for the purpose set forth in Section 1 hereof,
notes of the City may be issued in
an aggregate principal amount not
to exceed Two Million Fifty Thousand
Dollars
($2,050,000)
(the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth
in a certificate providing for the
final terms of the Notes and the

The City Record
sale of the Notes and signed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”).
Section 10.
Term of the Notes.
The Notes: shall bear interest at
such rate, not exceeding six percent
(6%) per year, as may be fixed by
the Director of Finance of the City
in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall
be
dated
their
date
of
issuance; shall mature on the date
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five (5) years from such date of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of a financial
advisor, determines that it is in the
best interest of the City in order to
enhance the marketability of the
Notes, the Director of Finance may
cause
the
Notes
to
not
be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two
(2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated
“Final
Judgment
Bond
Anticipation Notes”; shall be issued
in such numbers and denominations
as may be requested by the Note
Purchaser
(hereinafter
defined);
and shall be issued in fully registered form (which may be in a book
entry only system) in denominations
of $5,000 or integral multiples thereof. Interest shall be payable semiannually on the dates set forth in
the Note Certificate of Award; provided that if the Notes mature on or
before the end of the twelfth (12th)
month
following
their
date
of
issuance, interest on the Notes shall
be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note
Registrar”).
The
Escrow
Agent also shall act as paying
agent for the Notes if the Notes are
held in a book entry system. The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, an agreement among the
City, the Note Registrar and the
Escrow Agent (the “Note Registrar
Agreement”) providing for services
relating to the registration, transfer,
exchange and payment of Notes on
terms that are approved by the
Director of Finance on behalf of the
City. That approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Note Registrar Agreement by
the Director of Finance. The Director of Finance shall provide for the
payment of the services rendered
and for reimbursement of expenses
incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds
of the Notes to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on

2302

December 13, 2006
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this Ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Section 11.
Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
express upon their faces the purpose
for which they are issued and that
they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Each
Note
shall
be
authenticated by the manual signature of an authorized officer of the
Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance. In accordance with Section

December 13, 2006
9.96 of the Revised Code and the
foregoing requirement that each
Note bear the manual signature of
an authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or of its Director
of Finance may be a facsimile. The
Notes shall bear the seal of the City,
which seal may be a facsimile seal.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s
Charter, the Director of Law shall
prepare the Notes and shall endorse
thereon his approval of the form and
correctness thereof by his manual or
facsimile signature.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note
Purchaser”) in the principal amount
set forth in a certificate of award to
be executed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Notes and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes. That tax shall be
and is ordered computed, certified,
levied and extended upon the tax
duplicate and collected by the same
officers, in the same manner and at
the same time that taxes for general purposes for each year are certified, extended and collected. That
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies required
by this Ordinance shall be placed in
the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account, and those funds,
together with the interest collected
on
them,
shall
be
irrevocably
pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of the Notes or the
Bonds in anticipation of which they

The City Record
are issued, when and as the same
falls due; provided, however, that in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the Notes
and Bonds and are appropriated for
such purpose, the amount of such
direct tax upon all of the taxable
property in the City may be reduced
by the amount of such revenues so
available and appropriated.
Section 15. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a
disclosure document (each, an “Official Statement”) is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
sale of the Notes or the Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or
the Bonds, as the case may be, and
any necessary supplements and to
authorize the use and distribution of
each Official Statement and any supplements. The Mayor and the Director of Finance are authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in
their official capacities each Official
Statement
and
any
supplements
approved by them. Those officers
are, and each of them is, authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements as may,
in their judgment, be necessary or
appropriate. Those officers are also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final”
by the City within the meaning of
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12 the “SEC Rule.”)
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for services for the
production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as
the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
under the SEC Rule, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information and operating data and
notices, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of the SEC
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to prepare, or cause to be prepared,
and to sign and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, a
continuing disclosure agreement or
certificate, which shall constitute
the continuing disclosure agreement made by the City for the benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Notes or the Bonds,
as the case may be, in accordance
with the SEC Rule. The performance of that agreement shall be
subject to the availability of funds
and their annual appropriation to
meet costs the City would be

2303

37
required to incur to perform it. The
Director
of
Finance
is
further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the
third paragraph of Section 13(a)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 of the General Bond Ordinance
pursuant to Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section 18.
Federal Tax Covenants. The City covenants that it
will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
Code) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or
persons acting for it, will, among
other acts of compliance, (i) apply
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds to the governmental purpose
of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the
yield on investment property acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds, and, as applicable,
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.

38
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer
of the City having responsibility
for issuance of the Notes and the
Bonds is hereby authorized (a) to
make or effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent,
approval, or waiver on behalf of the
City with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds as the City is permitted
or required to make or give under
the federal income tax laws, including, without limitation thereto, any
of the elections provided for in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or
available under Section 148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon
or
assisting
compliance
with
requirements
for
that
purpose,
reducing the burden or expense of
such
compliance,
reducing
the
rebate
amount
or
payments
or
penalties, or making payments of
special amounts in lieu of making
computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as rebate, or
obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer, which action shall be in writing and signed by the officer, (b)
to take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make
payments,
and
make
or
give
reports, covenants and certifications of and on behalf of the City,
as may be appropriate to assure the
exclusion of interest from gross
income and the intended tax status
of the Notes and the Bonds, and (c)
to give one or more appropriate certificates of the City, for inclusion
in the transcript of proceedings for
the Notes and the Bonds, setting
forth the reasonable expectations of
the City regarding the amount and
use of all the proceeds of the Notes
and the Bonds, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on and the
tax status of the Notes and the
Bonds.
Section 19.
Bond Insurance and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written advice of a financial advisor,
the Director of Finance may obtain
a commitment for municipal bond
insurance issued by a nationally
recognized municipal bond insurance company insuring the payment when due of the principal of

The City Record
and interest on all or any portion
of the Bonds, request a rating on
the Bonds from one or more nationally recognized rating organizations, and do any and all things
and take any and all actions
required to secure a policy of
municipal bond insurance and/or a
rating or ratings on the Bonds
including, but not limited to, the
entering into of agreements on
behalf of the City necessary to
secure a policy of municipal bond
insurance. Those agreements may
be in separate documents or included in a Bond Purchase Agreement,
a registrar agreement or a Certificate of Award, or any combination,
and contain terms not materially
inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The expenditure of the amounts
necessary to secure that insurance
or obtain those ratings is authorized and approved, and the Director of Finance is authorized to provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Bonds to the extent available and
otherwise from any other funds
lawfully available that are appropriated or shall be appropriated for
that purpose.
Section 20.
Financial Advisor.
The Director of Finance may obtain
the services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to
assist the Director of Finance in
making any of the determinations
required by this Ordinance to be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Director of Finance
may rely on the written advice of
any financial advisor so retained.
Any
financial
advisor
employed
under the authority of this Ordinance shall be disinterested in the
transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers any other
party interested in the transaction.
Section 21.
Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance were taken, and
any of its committees and that all
deliberations of this Council that
resulted in these formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 22. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is represented and recited, that
the provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32,
33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to readings on
three separate days or dispensing

2304

December 13, 2006
with such readings by a two-thirds
vote of all members of the Council),
36, 37, 48 and all other applicable
provisions of the City’s Charter and
the rules of this Council have been
fully complied with and this Ordinance was passed in conformity
therewith.
Section 23.
Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy
of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of Award for the Bonds and
any Note Certificate of Award to the
County Auditor of Cuyahoga County
and to secure a receipt therefor.
Section 24.
Severability. Each
section and each part of each section of this Ordinance is declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if
any such section or part of a section or any provision thereof, or the
application thereof to any person or
circumstance, is held to be invalid,
the remaining sections or parts of
sections and the application of such
provisions to any other person or
circumstance, other than those as to
which it is held invalid, shall not
be affected thereby, and it is
declared to be the legislative intent
that the other provisions of this
Ordinance would have been passed
independently of such section, or
parts of a section, so held to be
invalid.
Section 25. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 26.
Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of final judgments, including
court-approved settlements, which
are urgently needed for the benefit
of the City and, provided this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all members elected
to Council, it shall take effect and
be in force immediately upon its
passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law, Committee on Finance.

December 13, 2006
Ord. No. 2075-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of Bonds
in the maximum principal amount of
$515,000 for the purpose of providing
funds for improving municipal cemetery facilities, buildings, structures
and grounds and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Five Hundred
Fifteen
Thousand
Dollars
($515,000) (the “Bonds”) to finance
the
costs
of
certain
permanent
improvements described in Section 1;
and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is twenty (20)
years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance of unvoted general obligations of the City, with the specific
terms of each series of Bonds to be
contained in ordinances authorizing
the issuance of Bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Bonds is necessary
to provide funds to pay the costs of
certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section 1 that are
urgently needed for the benefit of
the City, and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes
an
emergency
measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety, and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Five Hundred Fifteen Thousand Dollars ($515,000) for the purpose of providing funds for improving municipal cemetery facilities,
buildings, structures and grounds by
constructing,
reconstructing,
installing, enlarging, renovating, and
rehabilitating buildings, structures
and grounds, including clearing,
grading and excavating land, reconstructing, installing, renovating, and
rehabilitating
septic
system,
drainage and sewer facilities, installing access roadways including
any necessary bridges and culverts,
installing utility lines, laying out
and numbering burial plots, and
planting and landscaping, together
with all necessary and incidental
appurtenances and the acquisition

The City Record
of any required real estate and
interests in real estate, and to pay
any capitalized interest and all
expenses
incurred
in
connection
with the issuance of the securities,
including all financing costs within
the meaning of Section 133.01(K) of
the Revised Code and such other
costs of the foregoing permanent
improvements that may be financed
with the proceeds of securities as
permitted by Section 133.15(B) of
the Ohio Revised Code and as otherwise permitted by law.
Section 2.
Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance for the purpose stated in
Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated “Cemeteries Improvement
Bonds” and may contain such further designation as provided in the
Certificate
of
Award
identified
below. The Bonds shall be issued in
one lot as fully registered Bonds in
denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
March 1, 2007, or such other date,
but in no event later than December
31, 2008, specified in the certificate
of award providing for the final
terms of the Bonds and the sale of
the Bonds signed by the Director of
Finance in accordance with this
Ordinance
(the
“Certificate
of
Award”). The Bonds shall be issued
in the principal amount specified in
the Certificate of Award, which
shall not exceed the amount stated
in Section 1. The Bonds shall bear
interest from their date until the
principal amount is paid at the rate
or rates per year specified in the
Certificate of Award, provided that
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed six percent (6%) per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable semi-annually on May 15
and November 15 of each year,
beginning November 15, 2007, or on
such other dates specified in the
Certificate of Award as the dates on
which interest on the Bonds shall be
payable
(the
“Interest
Payment
Dates”).
The
Bonds
shall
mature
on
November 15 in twenty (20) substantially equal annual installments,
beginning November 15, 2007, or
according to the schedule set forth
in the Certificate of Award, provided that (i) each principal payment
shall occur on an Interest Payment
Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be no earlier than November 15, 2007 and no
later than December 31, 2009, (iii)
the final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than twenty (20)
years from that date which is
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount
thereof
shall
be
payable in annual installments such
that the total principal and interest

2305

39
payments on the Bonds in any fiscal year in which principal is
payable is not more than three times
the amount of those payments in
any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the “Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption or purchase prior to stated maturity as follows:
(a) Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and corresponding mandatory redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements)
or
pur-

40
chased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole or in
part on any date, in integral multiples of $5,000, on the optional
redemption dates and at the redemption prices (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount
redeemed) specified in the Certificate of Award, plus, in each case,
accrued interest to the redemption
date. The first optional redemption
date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment Date, and the highest redemption price shall not be greater than
102%
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed plus accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor, the Director of Finance may
determine
in
the
Certificate
of
Award that it is in the best interests of the City for some or all of
the Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar. That notice shall specify
the redemption date and the principal amount of each maturity of
Bonds to be redeemed, and shall be
given at least forty-five (45) days
prior to the redemption date or such
shorter period as shall be acceptable
to the Registrar. There shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date funds
sufficient to redeem at the redemption price all of the redeemable
Bonds for which notice of redemption has been given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided
in the Certificate of Award, the City
may elect to purchase Bonds called
for optional redemption in lieu of
redeeming those Bonds. That election shall be exercised by written
direction
from
the
Director
of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. That written direction shall state whether all or less
than all of the Bonds called for

The City Record
optional redemption are to be purchased by the City in lieu of
redemption, shall identify the Bonds
to be purchased by their maturity
date and shall specify the principal
amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased in lieu of redemption, the
amount of each maturity to be purchased shall be in amounts of $5,000
or integral multiples of $5,000. Any
Bonds called for optional redemption that are not to be purchased
shall be redeemed in accordance
with their redemption provisions.
The purchase price of the Bonds to
be purchased in lieu of redemption
shall be equal to the principal of,
any accrued but unpaid interest on,
and any premium that would have
been payable on the Bonds on the
redemption date if the Bonds had
been optionally redeemed instead of
being purchased. No notice of the
purchase in lieu of redemption is
required to be given to the owners
of the Bonds in addition to the
notice of redemption required by
this Ordinance. The Escrow Agent
or Registrar, as paying agent shall
not purchase Bonds if sufficient
moneys have not been deposited
with the Escrow Agent or Registrar,
as paying agent, by the City for the
purpose. On or prior to the scheduled date for optional redemption,
the City may rescind its direction to
purchase the Bonds in lieu of
redemption by written notice from
the Director of Finance to the Registrar and the Escrow Agent. In the
event that the direction to purchase
is rescinded, the Bonds shall be
redeemed on the redemption date set
forth in the notice of redemption
delivered to the owners of the Bonds
and in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption or Purchase. If fewer than all of the outstanding
Bonds
are
called
for
redemption at one time (whether for
redemption or purchase in lieu of
redemption), they shall be called in
the order of maturities directed by
the Director of Finance. If fewer
than all Bonds of a single maturity
are to be redeemed or purchase in
lieu of redemption, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed or purchased,
or portions thereof in amounts of
$5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, shall be made by the Registrar
by lot in a manner determined by
the Registrar. In the case of a partial
redemption
or
purchase
of
Bonds by lot when Bonds of denominations greater than $5,000 are then
outstanding, each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as
though it were a separate Bond of
the denomination of $5,000. If it is
determined that one or more, but not
all of the $5,000 units of principal
amount represented by a Bond are
to be called for redemption, then
upon notice of redemption of a
$5,000 unit or units, the registered
owner of that Bond shall surrender
the Bond to the Registrar (i) for
payment of the redemption or purchase price of the $5,000 unit or
units called for redemption (including, without limitation, the interest
accrued
to
the
date
fixed
for
redemption and any premium), and
(ii) for issuance, without charge to
the registered owner thereof, of a

2306

December 13, 2006
new Bond or Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal
amount equal to the unmatured portion of the Bond not redeemed or
purchased and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date as the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption (or such period specified in the Certificate of Award), to
the registered owner of each Bond
subject to redemption in whole or in
part
at
the
registered
owner’s
address shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at
the close of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing
and to any municipal bond insurance company that has issued a policy insuring some or all of the
Bonds. Failure to receive notice by
mail or any defect in that notice
regarding any Bond, however, shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any
Bond.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph, the Bonds and portions
thereof called for redemption shall
become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption of all of the Bonds and portions
thereof to be redeemed, including
interest accrued to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail, then from and after the
redemption date those Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall cease to bear interest and
no longer shall be considered to be
outstanding. If that money shall not
be so available on the redemption
date, or that notice shall not have
been deposited in the mail, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners and shall be
paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those
Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying agent. Principal shall be payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Pay-

December 13, 2006
ment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
date provided in the Agreement
authorized in Section 3 (the “Record
Date”). Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond
Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are
held by a Depository in a book entry
system (as described in Section 3),
debt charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance, except for the third paragraph of Section 13(a) (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 (pertaining generally to the periods during which the City is not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), will apply
to the Bonds. Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance
is included as a part of this Ordinance as fully as if restated in this
Ordinance. Words and terms not otherwise defined in this Ordinance
shall have the same meaning as set
forth in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by
the City’s Director of Finance. In
accordance with Section 9.96 of the
Revised Code and the foregoing
requirement that each Bond bear the
manual signature of an authorized
officer of the Trustee, either or both
of the signatures of the City’s Mayor
or of its Director of Finance may be
a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may
be a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the
Director of Law shall prepare the
Bonds and shall endorse thereon his
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his manual or facsimile
signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Registrar”). The Escrow Agent shall also act as paying
agent for the Bonds so long as the
Bonds are held in a book entry system. The Director of Finance shall
sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, an agreement
among the City, the Registrar and
the Escrow Agent (the “Agreement”), approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, providing for services relating to the
registration, transfer, exchange and

The City Record
payment of the Bonds on terms that
are approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City. That
approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Agreement by the Director of Finance.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
Agreement from the proceeds of the
Bonds to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). The person in whose name a
Bond is registered on the Bond Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the

2307

41
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making pro-

42
vision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4.
Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Bonds and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance, the written advice
of a financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 20 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase
the Bonds, including: the principal
amount of the Bonds, final purchase
price (which shall be not less than
97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of
delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal installments are payable (at
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Bonds (if different from those set
forth in Section 2) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance
to be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest
of the City to establish the terms
and requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, procedures,
and conditions for the delivery of
the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices
and certificates, to cause a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Bonds
to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and
other documents and instruments
and to take such actions as are nec-

The City Record
essary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated
by this Ordinance and to take all
steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement between the
City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, setting forth
the terms and conditions on which
the City agrees to sell the Bonds
and the Original Purchaser agrees
to buy the Bonds on terms consistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement
by
the
Director
of
Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in
this Ordinance and as may be provided in or pursuant to the Certificate of Award, are in the best interest of the City and in compliance
with all legal requirements.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be
designated
“Various
Purpose
General Obligation Bonds, Series
2007” or such other designation as
may be set forth in the Certificate
of Award. Such bonds shall contain
a summary statement of purposes
encompassing the purpose for which
the Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes, a direct
tax annually during the period the
Bonds
are
outstanding,
in
an
amount sufficient to provide for the
payment of that interest, when and
as the same shall fall due, and also
to discharge the principal of the
Bonds at maturity, which tax shall
not be less than the interest and
sinking fund tax required by Section
11 of Article XII of the Constitution
of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is ordered
computed,
certified,
levied
and
extended upon the tax duplicate and
collected by the same officers, in the
same manner and at the same time
that taxes for general purposes for
each of those years are certified,
extended and collected. The tax
shall be placed before and in preference to all other items and for the
full amount thereof. The funds
derived from those tax levies shall
be placed in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund as required by the
General Bond Ordinance, and those
funds, together with the interest collected on them shall be irrevocably
pledged for the payment of princi-

2308

December 13, 2006
pal of and interest on the Bonds
when and as the same fall due; provided, however, that, subject to the
provisions of Section 8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in each year to
the extent that revenues are available from other sources for the payment of the Bonds and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount
of such tax shall be reduced by the
amount of such revenues so available and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6.
Application of Proceeds. The proceeds from the sale
of the Bonds, except for accrued
interest thereon and any premium,
shall be expended and applied for
the objects and purposes for which
the Bonds are issued. Accrued interest and any premium received from
the sale of the Bonds shall be
deposited in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund to be applied to the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.

December 13, 2006
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations of the United States certified
by an independent public accounting firm of national reputation to
be of such maturities and interest
payment dates and to bear such
interest, without further investment
or reinvestment of either the principal amount thereof or the interest
earnings therefrom (likewise to be
held in trust and committed, except
as hereinafter provided), as will be
sufficient, together with moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on
the Bonds to their date of maturity
or redemption, as the case may be,
or if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by
the Escrow Agent in accordance
with the provisions of this Section
shall be invested by the Escrow
Agent in direct obligations of the
United States of America maturing,
or redeemable at the option of the
holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed
by the Director of Finance. Any
income or interest earned by, or
increment to, the investments held
under this Section shall, to the
extent determined from time to
time by the Escrow Agent to be in
excess of the amount required to be
held by it for the purposes of this
Section, be transferred at the time
of such determination as provided
in Section 17(a) of the General
Bond
Ordinance
for
unclaimed
funds held by a Paying Agent. In
the event of nonpresentment of any
Bond as described in Section 17(a)
of the General Bond Ordinance, the
moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held and paid as provided in said Section 17(a) for
unclaimed funds held by a Paying
Agent.
Section 9.
Bond Anticipation
Notes. For the purpose of raising
money
in
anticipation
of
the
issuance of the Bonds for the purpose set forth in Section 1 hereof,
notes of the City may be issued in
an aggregate principal amount not
to exceed Five Hundred Fifteen
Thousand Dollars ($515,000) (the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth
in a certificate providing for the
final terms of the Notes and the
sale of the Notes and signed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”).

The City Record
Section 10.
Term of the Notes.
The Notes: shall bear interest at
such rate, not exceeding six percent
(6%) per year, as may be fixed by
the Director of Finance of the City
in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall
be
dated
their
date
of
issuance; shall mature on the date
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five (5) years from such date of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of a financial
advisor, determines that it is in the
best interest of the City in order to
enhance the marketability of the
Notes, the Director of Finance may
cause
the
Notes
to
not
be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two
(2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated “Cemeteries Improvement
Bond Anticipation Notes”; shall be
issued in such numbers and denominations as may be requested by the
Note
Purchaser
(hereinafter
defined); and shall be issued in
fully registered form (which may be
in a book entry only system) in
denominations of $5,000 or integral
multiples thereof. Interest shall be
payable semi-annually on the dates
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award; provided that if the Notes
mature on or before the end of the
twelfth (12th) month following their
date of issuance, interest on the
Notes shall be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note
Registrar”).
The
Escrow
Agent also shall act as paying
agent for the Notes if the Notes are
held in a book entry system. The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, an agreement among the
City, the Note Registrar and the
Escrow Agent (the “Note Registrar
Agreement”) providing for services
relating to the registration, transfer,
exchange and payment of Notes on
terms that are approved by the
Director of Finance on behalf of the
City. That approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Note Registrar Agreement by
the Director of Finance. The Director of Finance shall provide for the
payment of the services rendered
and for reimbursement of expenses
incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds
of the Notes to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this Ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of

2309

43
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B), Revised Code, the Director of Finance
may combine the Notes with other
bond anticipation notes of the City
for purposes of their sale as a single issue to be designated “Various
Purpose General Obligation Bond
Anticipation Notes.” The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Notes are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 11.
Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
express upon their faces the purpose
for which they are issued and that
they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Each
Note
shall
be

44
authenticated by the manual signature of an authorized officer of the
Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance. In accordance with Section
9.96 of the Revised Code and the
foregoing requirement that each
Note bear the manual signature of
an authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or of its Director
of Finance may be a facsimile. The
Notes shall bear the seal of the City,
which seal may be a facsimile seal.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s
Charter, the Director of Law shall
prepare the Notes and shall endorse
thereon his approval of the form and
correctness thereof by his manual or
facsimile signature.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note
Purchaser”) in the principal amount
set forth in a certificate of award to
be executed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Notes and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes. That tax shall be
and is ordered computed, certified,
levied and extended upon the tax
duplicate and collected by the same
officers, in the same manner and at
the same time that taxes for general purposes for each year are certified, extended and collected. That
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies required
by this Ordinance shall be placed in
the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account, and those funds,

The City Record
together with the interest collected
on
them,
shall
be
irrevocably
pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of the Notes or the
Bonds in anticipation of which they
are issued, when and as the same
falls due; provided, however, that in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the Notes
and Bonds and are appropriated for
such purpose, the amount of such
direct tax upon all of the taxable
property in the City may be reduced
by the amount of such revenues so
available and appropriated.
Section 15. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a
disclosure document (each, an “Official Statement”) is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
sale of the Notes or the Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or
the Bonds, as the case may be, and
any necessary supplements and to
authorize the use and distribution of
each Official Statement and any supplements. The Mayor and the Director of Finance are authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in
their official capacities each Official
Statement
and
any
supplements
approved by them. Those officers
are, and each of them is, authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements as may,
in their judgment, be necessary or
appropriate. Those officers are also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final”
by the City within the meaning of
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12 the “SEC Rule.”)
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for services for the
production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as
the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
under the SEC Rule, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information and operating data and
notices, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of the SEC
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to prepare, or cause to be prepared,
and to sign and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, a
continuing disclosure agreement or
certificate, which shall constitute
the continuing disclosure agreement made by the City for the benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Notes or the Bonds,
as the case may be, in accordance
with the SEC Rule. The perfor-

2310

December 13, 2006
mance of that agreement shall be
subject to the availability of funds
and their annual appropriation to
meet costs the City would be
required to incur to perform it. The
Director
of
Finance
is
further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the
third paragraph of Section 13(a)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 of the General Bond Ordinance
pursuant to Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section 18.
Federal Tax Covenants. The City covenants that it
will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
Code) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or
persons acting for it, will, among
other acts of compliance, (i) apply
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds to the governmental purpose
of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the
yield on investment property acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds, and, as applicable,
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the

December 13, 2006
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer
of the City having responsibility
for issuance of the Notes and the
Bonds is hereby authorized (a) to
make or effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent,
approval, or waiver on behalf of the
City with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds as the City is permitted
or required to make or give under
the federal income tax laws, including, without limitation thereto, any
of the elections provided for in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or
available under Section 148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon
or
assisting
compliance
with
requirements
for
that
purpose,
reducing the burden or expense of
such
compliance,
reducing
the
rebate
amount
or
payments
or
penalties, or making payments of
special amounts in lieu of making
computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as rebate, or
obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer, which action shall be in writing and signed by the officer, (b)
to take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make
payments,
and
make
or
give
reports, covenants and certifications of and on behalf of the City,
as may be appropriate to assure the
exclusion of interest from gross
income and the intended tax status
of the Notes and the Bonds, and (c)
to give one or more appropriate certificates of the City, for inclusion
in the transcript of proceedings for
the Notes and the Bonds, setting
forth the reasonable expectations of
the City regarding the amount and
use of all the proceeds of the Notes
and the Bonds, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on and the
tax status of the Notes and the
Bonds.
Section 19.
Bond Insurance and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain a
commitment
for
municipal
bond
insurance issued by a nationally recognized municipal bond insurance

The City Record
company
insuring
the
payment
when due of the principal of and
interest on all or any portion of the
Bonds, request a rating on the
Bonds from one or more nationally
recognized rating organizations, and
do any and all things and take any
and all actions required to secure a
policy of municipal bond insurance
and/or a rating or ratings on the
Bonds including, but not limited to,
the entering into of agreements on
behalf of the City necessary to
secure a policy of municipal bond
insurance. Those agreements may
be in separate documents or included in a Bond Purchase Agreement,
a registrar agreement or a Certificate of Award, or any combination,
and contain terms not materially
inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure that insurance or
obtain those ratings is authorized
and approved, and the Director of
Finance is authorized to provide for
the payment of any such amounts
from the proceeds of the Bonds to
the extent available and otherwise
from any other funds lawfully available that are appropriated or shall
be appropriated for that purpose.
Section 20. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial
advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required
by this Ordinance to be determined
by the Director of Finance. The
Director of Finance may rely on the
written advice of any financial advisor so retained. Any financial advisor employed under the authority of
this Ordinance shall be disinterested in the transaction and be independent of the Original Purchasers
any other party interested in the
transaction.

45
vote of all members of the Council),
36, 37, 48 and all other applicable
provisions of the City’s Charter and
the rules of this Council have been
fully complied with and this Ordinance was passed in conformity
therewith.
Section 23.
Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy
of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of Award for the Bonds and
any Note Certificate of Award to the
County Auditor of Cuyahoga County
and to secure a receipt therefor.
Section 24.
Severability. Each
section and each part of each section of this Ordinance is declared
to be an independent section or
part of a section and, notwithstanding any other evidence of legislative intent, it is declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remaining sections
or parts of sections and the application of such provisions to any
other person or circumstance, other
than those as to which it is held
invalid, shall not be affected thereby, and it is declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section,
so held to be invalid.

Section 21.
Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance were taken, and
any of its committees and that all
deliberations of this Council that
resulted in these formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.

Section 25. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.

Section 22. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is represented and recited, that
the provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32,
33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to readings on
three separate days or dispensing
with such readings by a two-thirds

Section 26. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, property, health and safety
of the City by providing funds to
pay the costs of certain permanent
improvements which are urgently
needed for the benefit of the City
and for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department, and,
provided this Ordinance receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds
of all members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest date
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law, Committee on Finance.

2311

46
Ord. No. 2076-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to enter into contract with the
Cuyahoga County Corrections Planning Board and the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas Adult Probation Department Drug Testing
Laboratory, for drug and alcohol testing services, for a term of one year,
with one option to renew for an additional one year period.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
enter into contract with the Cuyahoga County Corrections Planning
Board and the Cuyahoga County
Court of Common Pleas Adult Probation Department Drug Testing
Laboratory, for laboratory testing
services necessary to test specimens
to determine the presence of alcohol
or drugs of abuse, for a term of one
year, with one option to renew for
an additional one year period, in the
approximate sum of $70,000, for the
Cleveland Municipal Court, on a unit
basis. The contracts or contracts
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 01011509-632000 and 10 SF 085, Request
No. 149987.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 2077-06.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with iTRACS for professional services necessary to provide and
install new and upgraded software
necessary to expand current modules, including software support, for
a period of one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with iTRACS for professional services necessary to provide and
install new and upgraded software
necessary to expand current modules, including software support for
a period of one year in the total sum
of $50,000, for the Department of
Public Utilities. The contract or contracts shall be paid from Fund No.
52 SF 001, Request No. 176752.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter
into any third-party software license

The City Record
agreements necessary to effect the
purposes of this ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 2078-06.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with TeleAtlas for professional services necessary to provide a GISrelated street centerline data subscription, including but not limited
to maintenance and data updates,
for a period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with TeleAtlas for professional services necessary to provide a GISrelated street centerline data subscription, including but not limited
to maintenance and data updates for
a two year period, in the total sum
of $44,666.00, for the Department of
Public Utilities. The contract or contracts shall be paid from Fund No.
52 SF 001, Request No. 176771.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into any third-party software
license agreements necessary to
effect the purposes of this ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 2079-06.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of computer
network equipment necessary to
replace existing equipment, including labor and materials for installation, for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make

2312

December 13, 2006
one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for a one
or two year period of the necessary
items of computer network equipment necessary to replace existing
equipment, including labor and materials for installation, in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding term, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term. The
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with a term of two years
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Public Utilities by
comparing the bids received for both
terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 168045)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 2080-06.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of promotional materials, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

December 13, 2006
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make
one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for a one
or two year period of the necessary
items of promotional materials, in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the items
as the Board of Control determines.
Alternate bids for a period less than
the specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire term. The Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with a term of
two years instead of one year when
there is a financial advantage to the
City. For purposes of this ordinance,
a financial advantage shall be determined by the Director of Public Utilities by comparing the bids received
for both terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 168054)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 2081-06.
By Council Members Zone, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of renovating
various outside areas at 1201 Lakeside Avenue, and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of renovating various outside areas at
1201 Lakeside Avenue, including but
not limited to replacing the driveway at the west side entry area,
repairing concrete of the back deck,
and re-leveling sidewalk brick, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities, by one or more
contracts duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders after competitive
bidding on a unit basis for the
improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct
component
part
of
the
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 52 SF 001,
Request No. 176751.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 2082-06.
By Council Members Brady, Cimperman, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 185.191 relating to contracts to obtain emergency services
and acquire property rights necessary for public improvement projects conducted adjacent to and
within railroad and Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority
rights-of-way.
Whereas, in connection with public improvement projects adjacent to
or within railroad and/or Greater
Cleveland Regional Transit Authority (“GCRTA”) rights-of-way, the
railroad
company
and/or
the
GCRTA may require the City to provide and obtain their approval for
certain plans, specifications, other
documentation, and services from or
through person(s) or firm(s) designated by or acceptable to the railroad company and/or GCRTA; and
Whereas, to undertake and complete public improvement projects
adjacent
to
or
within
railroad
and/or GCRTA rights-of-way, the
City may require rights-of-entry to
or control of certain property adja-

2313

47
cent to or within railroad and/or
GCRTA rights-of-way; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 185.191 to read as follows:
Section 185.191 Contracts to Obtain Emergency Services and Acquire Property Rights Necessary For
Public Improvement Projects Conducted Adjacent To and Within Railroad and Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority Rights-of-Way
(a) When an emergency occurs
requiring
additional
services
in
order to prevent the interruption of
public improvement projects conducted by the City, the State, or the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority (“GCRTA”) adjacent to or
within
railroad
and/or
GCRTA
rights-of-way, the Director of the
Department for which the improvement is made, on approval of the
Board of Control, to do the following:
(1) employ by contract or contracts one or more person(s) or
firm(s), acceptable to the railroad
company and/or the GCRTA, to supplement
the
regularly
employed
staff of the City to perform services
necessary to the project including
surveying, testing, consulting, preparing and reviewing plans and
specifications,
certified
flagging
services and other similar services.
The Board of Control shall fix the
compensation to be paid the person(s) or firm(s) for the services.
(2) acquire temporary right of
entry permits and licenses as necessary to enter property adjacent to
or within railroad and/or GCRTA
rights-of-way essential to completion
of the project.
(3) acquire rights-of-way to or
control of property essential to or
necessary for the project, for not
more than fair market value, as
determined by the Board of Control,
after appraisal under Section 183.07.
(b) The funds identified in the
ordinance authorizing the City’s participation in a public improvement
project adjacent to or within railroad
and/or
Greater
Cleveland
Regional Transit Authority rightsof-way may be used to pay for services and property right acquisitions
authorized in this section.
(c) Contracts entered into under
this section shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Department Director, certified by
the Director of Finance, and paid
from
the
annual
appropriations
made for such purpose.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Legislation,
Finance.

48
Ord. No. 2083-06.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of East 59th Street.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
464-06, adopted June 12, 2006, this
Council declared its intention to
vacate a portion of East 59th Street;
and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on
the abutting property owners affected by the resolution which stated a
time and place when objections
would be heard before the Board of
Revision of Assessments; and
Whereas, on November 16, 2006 the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of the above and that
it will not be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be
made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being all that
portion of East 59th Street (50 feet
wide) extending Southerly from the
Westerly prolongation of the Southerly line of Park Avenue S.E.
(width varies) to its Southerly terminus.
Section 2. That there is reserved
to the City of Cleveland an easement of full width as described
above for Dominion East Ohio Gas,
AT&T, the Department of Water,
and Water Pollution Control.
That no structures shall be erected on the premises described in this
easement except those constructed
under the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by the
entities requesting easements and
the City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That provided all required approvals have been obtained, the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction is directed
to record the vacation plat in the
office of the Recorder of Cuyahoga
County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this ordinance to the Auditor of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 2084-06.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brady and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Hamilton Court N.E.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
994-06, adopted August 9, 2006, this
Council declared its intention to
vacate a portion of Hamilton Court
N.E.; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on
the abutting property owners affected by the resolution which stated a
time and place when objections
would be heard before the Board of
Revision of Assessments; and
Whereas, on November 16, 2006 the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of the above and that
it will not be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be
made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being all that
portion of Hamilton Court N.E. (16.5
feet wide) extending Easterly from
the Easterly right of way of East
38th Street (99 feet wide) to the
Westerly right of way of East 40th
Street (99 feet wide).
Section 2. That there is reserved
to the City of Cleveland an easement of full width as described
above for Cleveland Public Power,
and AT&T.
That no structures shall be erected on the premises described in this
easement except those constructed
under the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by the
entities requesting easements and
the City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That provided all required approvals have been obtained, the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction is directed
to record the vacation plat in the
office of the Recorder of Cuyahoga
County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this ordinance to the Auditor of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.

2314

December 13, 2006
Ord. No. 2085-06.
By Council Members White, Brady,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Richmond Avenue S.E.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
789-06, adopted July 12, 2006, this
Council declared its intention to
vacate a portion of Richmond Avenue S.E.; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on
the abutting property owners affected by the resolution which stated a
time and place when objections
would be heard before the Board of
Revision of Assessments; and
Whereas, on November 16, 2006 the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of the above and that
it will not be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be
made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being all that
portion of Richmond Avenue S. E.
(40 feet wide) extending from the
East right of way line of East 91st
Street (56 feet wide) Easterly to the
West right of way line of East 93rd
Street (70 feet wide).
Section 2. That there is reserved
to the City of Cleveland an easement of full width as described
above for Dominion East Ohio Gas,
AT&T, the Department of Water,
Illuminating Company and Water
Pollution Control.
That no structures shall be erected on the premises described in this
easement except those constructed
under the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by the
entities requesting easements and
the City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That provided all required approvals have been obtained, the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction is directed
to record the vacation plat in the
office of the Recorder of Cuyahoga
County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this ordinance to the Auditor of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.

December 13, 2006
Ord. No. 2089-06.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Kinsman Road and
East 117th Street to Bethel Church
of Christ (Holiness) USA.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 130-21-019
and
130-21-101,
as
more
fully
described below, to Bethel Church of
Christ (Holiness) USA.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 130-21-019
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot No. 45 and part of Sublot No.
46 in Karoline Knopf’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 444, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 32 of Maps, Page
23 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
together forming a parcel of land
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line of
Kinsman Road, S.E., at the Northeasterly corner of Sublot No. 45;
thence Westerly along the Southerly line of Kinsman Road, S.E., 60
feet to a point which is 40 feet Easterly, measured along the Southerly
line of Kinsman Road, S.E., from the
Northwesterly corner of said Sublot
No. 46; thence Southerly on a line
drawn parallel to the Easterly line
of said Sublot No. 46, about 155.80
feet to the Southerly line of said
Sublot No. 46; thence Easterly along
the Southerly line of said Sublot
Nos. 46 and 45, 57.76 feet to the S.E.
corner of said Sublot No. 45; thence
Northerly along the Easterly line of
said Sublot No. 45, 139.53 feet to the
place of beginning, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Easement contained in Warranty
Deed dated July 14, 1943 and recorded in Volume 5619, Page 531 of
Cuyahoga County Records.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
P. P. No. 130-21-101
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.

The City Record
43 in Karoline Knopf’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 444 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 32 of Maps, Page
23 of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 40 feet front on the Westerly
line of East 117th Street, and extending back of equal width, 144.30 feet
deep, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of Cleveland. The deed shall contain such
provisions as may be necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest including such restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as
may be specified by the Board of
Control, the Director of Community
Development or the Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 2090-06.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Tiverton Road to
Collinwood and Nottingham Villages
Development Corporation.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and

2315

49
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 114-31-040,
as more fully described below, to
Collinwood and Nottingham Village
Development Corporation.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 114-31-040
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Euclid Township Tract No.
14, bounded and described as follow:
Beginning at a point in the center line of Nottingham Road at its
intersection with the Southeasterly
line of Mary A. Jeffries Subdivision
as shown by plat recorded in Volume 26 of Maps, Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Records, said point
being also South 34° 42' 15" West
0.75 feet from a stone monument in
said Nottingham Road; thence South
52° 24' 30" East along the center
line of Nottingham Road 239.5 feet
to a point; thence North 37° 35' 30"
East at right angles to the center
line of Nottingham Road 366.0 feet
to the principal place of beginning:
Course No. 1: Thence North 37° 35'
30" East 40.82 feet to the Southerly
line of Shelton Drive proposed (40
feet wide);
Course No. 2: Thence deflecting to
the left along the arc of a circle
forming a part of the Southerly line
of Shelton Drive, proposed, 65.25 feet
to a point of reverse curvature, said
arc having a radius of 133.50 feet
and a chord which bears South 72°
46' 32" East 64.60 feet;
Course No. 3: Thence deflecting to
the right along the arc of a circle
forming a turnout connecting Shelton Drive, proposed and Tiverton
Road, proposed 65.12 feet to a point
of tangency, said arc having a
radius of 30 feet and a chord which
bears South 24° 53' 35" East 53.07
feet;
Course No. 4: Thence South 37° 35'
30" West along the Northwesterly
line of Tiverton Road proposed 38.55
feet;
Course No. 5: Thence North 52° 24'
30" West 107.5 feet to the principal
point of beginning, and being further known as Sublot No. 29 in the
Elworthy Helwick Company’s proposed Bungalow Park Allotment No.
2, as now recorded in Volume 69 of
Maps, Page 40 of Cuyahoga County
records, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as

50
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 2091-06.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with the Consortium for Community/Economic Development for
the Housing Community Services
Program through the use of Ward 7
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Consortium for Community/Economic Development for the
Housing Community Services Program for the public purpose of providing housing services and housing
assistance to Cleveland residents
through the use of Ward 7 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $19,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

The City Record
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 2086-06.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Economic Development and Community Development to enter into one or more contracts with WECO Fund, Inc. to
guarantee funds appropriated from
local banks to be lent, by WECO, to
eligible small businesses and entities located on Public Square to
East 30th Street that have been negatively impacted during the construction of the Euclid Corridor Project through the Euclid Corridor
Small Business Loan Program.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland in
conjunction with the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority
(“GCRTA”) is undertaking the major
redevelopment of the Euclid Avenue
Corridor (“Euclid Corridor Project”);
and
Whereas, due to construction and
street closings for the Euclid Corridor Project many local, small businesses and entities are being negatively impacted to the point where
jobs for low and moderate income
people may be lost; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
and this Council have determined
that a loan guaranty assistance program (“Euclid Corridor Small Business Loan Program”) is in the public interest and is necessary to prevent the loss of these jobs for low
and moderate income people; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of
Economic Development and Community Development are authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with WECO Fund, Inc. (“WECO”)
through the Euclid Corridor Small
Business Loan Program to guarantee funds that have been appropriated by local banks for the purpose
of allowing WECO to provide loans
to local, small businesses and entities making retail sales, subject to
the Ohio Sales Tax, located on Public Square to East 30th Street (Census Tracts 1076, 1077, 1078, and 1079)
that have been negatively impacted
during
the
construction
of
the
Euclid Corridor Project.
Section 2. That the Directors of
Economic Development and Community Development are authorized to
accept collateral as they deem adequate in order to secure repayment
of the loan guaranties. Any security instruments must be prepared
and approved by the Director of
Law.

2316

December 13, 2006
Section 3. That the Directors of
Economic Development and Community Development are authorized to
accept monies in repayment of the
loan guaranties and assignments
and assumptions of the loans and
the underlying collateral.
Section 4. That the Director of
Law is authorized to prepare the
contracts and such other documents
as may be appropriate to complete
the loan guaranty transactions.
Section 5. That the total amount
of loans guaranteed shall not exceed
an aggregate of $250,000, payable
from Fund No. 17 SF 003, Request
No. 103726.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2087-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1472-06
passed September 11, 2006, relating
to contract with Valleyview Phase
I, L.P. to provide development assistance to partially finance the Valley
View Hope VI Development Project
Phase I.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1472-06 passed September
11, 2006 is hereby amended to read
as follows:
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan shall be according to the terms
set forth in the Summary contained
in File No. 1890-05-C, as presented to
the Finance Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation and shall not be changed
without
additional
legislative
authority.
Section 2. That existing Section 2
of Ordinance No. 1472-06 passed September 11, 2006 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

December 13, 2006
Ord. No. 2088-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance declaring certain improvements to be for
a public purpose and making provision for the collection of service
payments in lieu of taxes pursuant
to Sections 5709.41 to 5709.43 of the
Revised Code, and establishing an
Urban Redevelopment Tax Increment Equivalent Fund.
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Article
XVIII, Section 3 of the Ohio Constitution and ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, the City has undertaken
a program of urban redevelopment,
involving activities for the elimination of blight and deterioration and
the City has, by Ordinance No. 164405 passed October 17, 2005, approved
the Flats East Bank Community
Development Plan (which plan, as it
may hereafter be amended, is hereinafter called the “Plan”) providing
for the redevelopment of the properties in the area covered by the
Plan (the “Plan Area”); and
Whereas, as part of its activities
for
carrying
out
redevelopment
activities and to eliminate blighted
conditions and prevent the recurrence of blight, and to satisfy the
requirements of Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, the City acquired
from the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority (the “Port Authority”) certain property described in
File No. 2088-06-A (the “Property”),
which Property is located in the
Plan Area, and the City has conveyed the Property to the Port
Authority for construction of an
office building on the property for
sale or lease consistent with the
Plan (the “Project”); and
Whereas, the City has determined
that it is necessary and appropriate
and in the best interests of carrying
out the Plan and in the best interests of the City to provide for annual service payments in lieu of taxes
with respect to the Property (“Service Payments”) pursuant to Sections
5709.41
to
5709.43
of
the
Revised Code and pursuant to Section 553.02.06 of Amended Substitute
House Bill 66 signed by the Governor on June 30, 2005; and
Whereas, the Property is located
in the Cleveland Municipal School
District (the “School District”), and
the School District has approved the
real property tax exemption provided for in this Ordinance and has
waived notice requirements on the
condition that a compensation agreement previously authorized by the
City be entered into relating to the
Plan Area (the “School Agreement”);
and
Whereas, the construction of the
Project is necessary to eliminate
blighted conditions and prevent the
recurrence of blight in the Plan
Area and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes an emergency measure
providing for the immediate preservation of the public, peace, property, health and safety, and for the
usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1.
Property Tax Exemption. That pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of Section
5709.41 of the Revised Code, this
Council hereby finds and determines
that 100% of the increase in assessed
value of the Property subsequent to
its acquisition by the City (which

The City Record
increase in assessed value is hereinafter referred to as the “Improvement” as defined in said Section
5709.41 of the Revised Code) will be
a public purpose, and said Improvement is hereby declared to be a public purpose for a period of 30 years
and 100% of the Improvement shall
thereby be exempt from real property taxation commencing in tax year
2009 and ending after the Improvements have been exempted from real
property taxation for 30 years, all in
accordance with the requirements of
said Sections 5709.41 and 5709.42 of
the Revised Code.
Section 2. Service Payments. That
as provided in Section 5709.42 of the
Revised Code, the owner or owners
of the Improvement are hereby
required to and shall pay the Service Payments to the County Treasurer on or before the final dates for
payment of real property taxes,
which Service Payments, together
with any associated rollback payments, shall be deposited in the
urban redevelopment tax increment
equivalent fund established in Section 3 hereof. This Council hereby
authorizes the Mayor, Director of
Finance,
Director
of
Economic
Development, and Law Director, and
other appropriate officers of the
City, to provide such information
and certifications, and execute and
deliver or accept delivery of such
instruments, as are necessary and
incidental to collect those Service
Payments,
and
to
make
such
arrangements as are necessary and
proper for payment of the Service
Payments.
Section 3. Redevelopment Tax Increment Equivalent Fund. That this
Council hereby establishes pursuant
to and in accordance with the provisions of Section 5709.43 of the
Revised Code, the Flat East Bank
Urban Redevelopment Tax Increment Equivalent Fund (the “Fund”),
into which shall be deposited the
Service Payments distributed to the
City with respect to the Improvement on the Property by or on
behalf of the County Treasurer as
provided in Section 5709.42 of the
Revised Code, together with any
associated rollback payments. One
hundred percent (100%) of the moneys collected shall be deposited in
the Fund and shall be retained by
the City and used for any or all of
the following purposes:
(i) Payment of all costs associated with the construction of the Project, including costs incurred by the
Port Authority or other governmental entity and including debt service
and related costs on obligations or
loans issued or incurred by the City,
the Port Authority, or other governmental entity;
(ii) Construction, operation and
maintenance of public improvements
and publicly-owned facilities, including, but not limited to, streets, storm
and sanitary sewers, water treatment facilities and water transmission lines, sidewalks, curbs, street
trees
and
furniture,
transitway
improvements,
off-street
parking
facilities, street lighting and signalization,
pedestrian
walkways,
and
public
parks
and
plazas,
whether owned by the City or other
governmental entity by agreement
with the City, and associated land
acquisition and demolition, planning
and engineering costs;

2317

51
(iii) Land and building acquisition,
demolition, site preparation, and relocation expenses relating to the Plan
Area or other community development, urban renewal or urban redevelopment areas of the City;
(iv) Debt service requirements on
bonds or notes issued by the City;
(v) Provision of all or part of the
matching local share commitments
for state and federal grants;
(vi) Provision of subsidies for
construction or renovation loans in
connection with community development, urban renewal or urban redevelopment projects in the City;
(vii) Funding any other activities
which will facilitate the elimination
of blight and deterioration, including any costs arising from carrying
out community development, urban
renewal or urban redevelopment
activities in the City;
(viii)
Funding
administrative
costs and charges incidental to any
of items above;
(ix) Compensating the School District pursuant to the School Agreement; and
(x) Any other expenditures permitted by law.
The Fund shall remain in existence so long as such service payments are collected, after which said
fund may be dissolved in accordance
with said Section 5709.43 and transferred to the General Fund or any
other fund as permitted by applicable law.
Section 4.
Filing and Reporting
to State. That pursuant to Section
5709.41 of the Revised Code, the
Clerk of this Council is hereby
directed to deliver a copy of this
Ordinance to the Director of the
Department of Development of the
State of Ohio within fifteen days
after its passage. On or before
March 31 of each year that the
exemption set forth in Section 1
hereof remains in effect, the Clerk
or other authorized officer of this
City shall prepare and submit to the
Director of the Department of Development of the State of Ohio the status report required under division
(D) of Section 5709.41(D) of the
Revised Code.
Section 5. Captions. That the captions or headings in this Ordinance
are for convenience only and in no
way define, limit or describe the
scope or intent of any provisions or
sections of this Ordinance.
Section 6. Open Meeting Determination. That it is found and determined that all formal actions of this
Council and of any of its committees
concerning and relating to the passage of this Ordinance were taken,
and any of its committees and that
all deliberations of this Council that
resulted in these formal actions
were held in meetings open to the
public, in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 7. City Charter Findings.
That it is further found and determined, and is hereby represented
and recited, that the provisions of
Sections 28, 29, 32, 33 (including the
provisions of Section 33 with respect
to readings on three separate days
or dispensing with such readings by
a two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other

52
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 8. Severability. That each
section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be the
controlling legislative intent that if
any such section or part of a section
or any provision thereof, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than those as to
which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is hereby
declared to be the legislative intent
that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have been passed independently of such section, or parts of
a section, so held to be invalid.
Section 9. Legislative Intent. That
all terms, conditions, pledges, covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Section 10.
Emergency Measure.
That this Ordinance is declared to
be an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, property, health and safety of the City by providing for the
elimination of blighted conditions
and prevention of the recurrence of
those conditions and for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department, and, provided this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all members elected
to Council, it shall take effect and
be in force immediately upon its
passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
date allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2092-06.
By Council Member White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into an
agreement with the Union Miles
Development Corporation for the
Youth and Senior Recreation Program through the use of Ward 2
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
enter into an agreement with the
Union Miles Development Corporation for the Youth and Senior Recreation Program for the public purpose of providing recreational programs to youths and senior citizens

The City Record
residing in the city of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $8,050 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2093-06.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into
contract
or
contracts
with
Ardence, Inc. for the purchase of
software and for professional services for support and maintenance
of software beginning December
2006 through the year 2007.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized to enter into
a
contract
or
contracts
with
Ardence, Inc. for the purchase of
software, and for professional services for support and maintenance
of software, beginning December
2006 through the year 2007.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract
or
contracts
shall
not
exceed $25,000 and shall be payable
from Fund No. 21, Subclass 106.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2108-06.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic
Development
to
enter
into
an
agreement with the Cudell Improvement
Incorporated
for
the
Winterfest Program through the
use of Urban Development Action
Grant Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

2318

December 13, 2006
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Cudell Improvement Incorporated for the Winterfest Program
for the public purpose of promoting
community and economic revitalization efforts that are taking place in
the City of Cleveland through the
use of UDAG Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $10,900 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 17 SF 17652.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2109-06.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Gallop for Kids Run,
on December 10, 2006, sponsored by
HMA Promotions.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Gallop for Kids
Run sponsored by HMA Productions,
on December 10, 2006, with the Run
beginning at East 22nd & Central;
East 22nd to Cedar; Cedar to East
30th; East 30th to Central, Central to
East 40th, East 40th to Woodland,
Woodland to East 22nd, East 22nd
to Community College, Community
College to East 24th, East 24th to
Central; Central to East 22nd — finish, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of

December 13, 2006
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 2094-06.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit at 3655-57 Bosworth Avenue, and repealing Resolution No. 1136-06, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D5 Liquor Permit to 3655-57
Bosworth Avenue by Resolution No.
1136-06 adopted by the Council on
July 12, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
Liquor Permit to Masich, Inc., 365557
Bosworth
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44111,
Permanent
Number
5604495 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 113606, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2095-06.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting to a Liquor Agency Contract
located at 6542 Broadway Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a
Liquor Agency Contract at 6557
Broadway Avenue, Inc., DBA Key
Beverage & Liquor, 6542 Broadway
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number 82007440001; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has oper-

The City Record
ated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a Liquor
Agency Contract at 6557 Broadway
Avenue, Inc., DBA Key Beverage &
Liquor,
6542
Broadway
Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 82007440001; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2096-06.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of liquor license
of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to
6542 Broadway Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of liquor license of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit from 6557
Broadway
Avenue,
Inc.,
6553-57
Broadway Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permanent Number 8200744 to
6557 Broadway Avenue, Inc., DBA

2319

53
Key Beverage & Liquor, 6542 Broadway Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent Number 82007440001; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of liquor license of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from 6557 Broadway
Avenue,
Inc.,
6553-57
Broadway
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number 8200744 to 6557
Broadway Avenue, Inc., DBA Key
Beverage & Liquor, 6542 Broadway
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number 82007440001; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

54
Res. No. 2097-06.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit at 3029 West 117th Street,
and repealing Resolution No. 1292-06,
objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 3029 West 117th Street by
Resolution No. 1292-06 adopted by
the Council on August 9, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to Goal Post, Inc., DBA Lido Lounge,
3029 West 117th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44111,
Permanent
Number
3231531 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 129206, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2098-06.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to a Liquor Agency Contract
located at 3230 East 93rd Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a
Liquor Agency Contract at Semaan
Marketing, Inc., 3230 East 93rd
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number 7974550; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement

The City Record
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a Liquor
Agency Contract at Semaan Marketing, Inc., 3230 East 93rd Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 7974550; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2099-06.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of a C2, C2X and
D6 Liquor Permit to 7535 Kinsman
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C2, C2X
and D6 Liquor Permit from Willa
G., Inc., DBA Gene’s Corner Beverage, No. 2, 7535 Kinsman Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 96191910015 to Kimetra L.
Leslie, DBA Big Fahies Deli, 7535
Kinsman Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent Number 5144147;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor

2320

December 13, 2006
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2, C2X and
D6 Liquor Permit from Willa G.,
Inc., DBA Gene’s Corner Beverage,
No. 2, 7535 Kinsman Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number
96191910015 to Kimetra L. Leslie,
DBA Big Fahies Deli, 7535 Kinsman
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number 5144147; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

December 13, 2006
Res. No. 2100-06.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 7002 Cedar Avenue,
and repealing Resolution No. 753-06,
objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit to 7002
Cedar Avenue by Resolution No. 75306 adopted by the Council on April
24, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit to Cedar 70, Inc.,
DBA Upstate Market, 7002 Cedar
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 1351124, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 753-06, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2101-06.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 2101
Denison Avenue, and repealing Resolution Nos. 1318-03 and 1346-05,
objecting to said renewals.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 2101
Denison Avenue by Resolution No.
1318-03 adopted by the Council on
July 16, 2003 and Resolution No.
1346-05 adopted by the Council on
July 13, 2005; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objections to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objections to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Karam’s
Corporation, DBA Johnny’s Food
Market, 2101 Denison Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent Number
4483278 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution Nos. 131803 and 1346-05, containing such

The City Record
objections, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2102-06.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership and renewal of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit at 9621 Mt. Auburn Road, and repealing Resolution
Nos. 1490-06 and 1334-04, objecting to
said transfer and renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to 9621 Mt.
Auburn Road by Resolution No.
1490-06 adopted by the Council on
September 11, 2006 and to the
renewal by Resolution No. 1334-04
adopted by the Council on July 14,
2004; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objections to the above
transfer and renewal and consents
to said transfer and renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Mt.
Auburn Deli, Inc., DBA Woddi Market, 9621 Mt. Auburn Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number
6210878, and objection to Woddi II,
Inc., DBA Cousins Superette, 9621
Mt. Auburn Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent Number 9725521 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution Nos. 1490-06 and 133404, containing such objections, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer and renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

2321

55
Res. No. 2103-06.
By Council Member Pierce Scott.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit at 907 East 105th Street and
repealing Resolution No. 1556-06,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of liquor license of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Eddie’s
Mini Mart, Inc., DBA Eddie’s Mini
Mart, 907 East 105th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent No.
243443800011, adopted by the Council
on September 18, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Eddie’s
Mini Mart, Inc., DBA Eddie’s Mini
Mart, 907 East 105th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent Number
24344380001 be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1556-06, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2104-06.
By Council Members Conwell, Britt,
Zone, Brancatelli, Cummins, Lewis,
Coats and Turner.
An emergency resolution encouraging the City of Cleveland’s Department of Public Health to study
ways to reduce artificial trans fats
in citizens’ diets and work with the
Cuyahoga County Board of Health
towards banning artificial trans fats
from restaurants.
Whereas, on December 5, 2006,
New York City became the first city
in the nation to ban artery-clogging
artificial trans fats at restaurants;
and
Whereas, the New York Board of
Health unanimously passed the ban
that bars restaurants from using
most frying oils containing the fats
by July 2007 and gives restaurants
another year to eliminate all trans
fats from all foods; and
Whereas, the ban, which was
advocated by New York Mayor
Michael Bloomberg, follows a national requirement beginning this
past January that companies list
artificial trans-fat content on food

56
labels, and efforts are being made
to reduce the trans-fat content of
snacks in school vending machines;
and
Whereas, health and nutrition
groups say artificial trans fats
clearly contribute to heart disease,
and studies have shown that they
raise bad cholesterol and lower the
good kind of cholesterol; and
Whereas, partially hydrogenated
vegetable oil, the main form of
artificial trans fates, is used for
frying and baking and is present
in processed foods from cookies
and crackers to pizza dough and
pre-made blends like pancake mix;
and
Whereas, reducing artificial trans
fats in citizens’ diets and banning
the fats from restaurants is necessary for the public health of the citizens of the State of Ohio, Cuyahoga
County and the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby encourages the City of Cleveland’s Department of Public Health
to study ways to reduce artificial
trans fats in citizens’ diets and
work with the Cuyahoga County
Board of Health towards banning
artificial trans fats from restaurants.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this resolution to the Cuyahoga
County Board of Health.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2105-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution supporting the concept of a local Main
Street program in Cleveland’s Historic Gateway Neighborhood and
Historic Warehouse District and the
submittal of an application to the
Heritage Ohio Main Street Program
by Historic Gateway Neighborhood
Corporation and Historic Warehouse
District Development Corporation to
become
two
official
Ohio
Main
Street communities.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
recognizes the importance of downtown as it relates to the economic
health and quality of life of the
community; and
Whereas, the continued improvement, revitalization and development of downtown is a City of
Cleveland goal; and

The City Record
Whereas, the two Main Street
organizations will be formed to
stimulate economic development and
preservation of downtown Cleveland’s Historic Gateway Neighborhood and Historic Warehouse District thereby lessening the burden of
municipal government; and
Whereas, the Main Street approach to downtown revitalization
has generated community-wide interest and support; and
Whereas, the City Council recognizes the commitment of Historic
Gateway Neighborhood Corporation
and Historic Warehouse District
Development Corporation to provide
financial support to Heritage Ohio
Main Street Program when established (in an amount not to exceed
one-half of the annual program budget); as well as an annual membership in Downtown Ohio, Inc.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby endorses the concept of a local
Main Street program in Cleveland’s
Historic Gateway Neighborhood and
Historic Warehouse District and the
submittal of an application to the
Heritage Ohio Main Street Program
by Historic Gateway Neighborhood
Corporation and Historic Warehouse
District Development Corporation to
become an official Ohio Main Street
communities.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to Historic
Gateway Neighborhood Corporation
and Historic Warehouse District
Development Corporation respectively.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2106-06.
By Council Members Cummins,
Brancatelli, Zone, Polensek, Kelley,
White, Cimperman, Pierce Scott,
Westbrook,
Coats,
Conwell
and
Brady.
An emergency resolution supporting federal and state efforts to
restore the Great Lakes through the
federal “Great Lakes Collaboration
Implementation Act” and the State
of Ohio’s “Great Lakes-St. Lawrence
River Basin Water Resources Compact”.
Whereas, the Great Lakes comprise almost 20% of the world’s surface fresh water and 95% of North
America’s fresh surface water, and
supply drinking water to more than

2322

December 13, 2006
40 million U.S. and Canadian residents; and
Whereas,
Lake
Erie
supplies
drinking water to nearly 3 million
Ohioans and supports local agriculture; a diversity of wildlife, including a world class fishery; maritime
trade; industry; and tourism; and
Whereas, Lake Erie is ailing from
a multitude of stressors, including
aquatic invasive species, toxic contamination of river and lake sediments, partially or inadequately
treated sewage discharges, pollution
from non-point sources, and coastal
habitat loss; and
Whereas, Lake Erie is the shallowest, warmest and most biologically productive, producing more
fish for human consumption than all
of the other four Great Lakes combined; and
Whereas, Lake Erie is incredibly
vulnerable to stressors as the smallest Great Lake both in surface area
and volume, with a drainage basin
totaling 30,140 square miles, and
encompassing
parts
of
Indiana,
Michigan, New York, Ohio, Ontario,
and Pennsylvania; and
Whereas, the health of Lake Erie
is essential to the quality of life and
economic vitality of communities
along its shores and in the surrounding basin, supporting tourism,
industrial, recreational, commercial,
and cultural activities; and
Whereas, over 140 scientists have
endorsed a paper, “Prescription for
Great Lakes Ecosystem Protection
and Restoration – Avoiding the Tipping Point of Irreversible Changes,”
which calls for urgent action in the
Great Lakes to avoid an ecosystem
breakdown;
Whereas,
there
has
been
an
unprecedented collaborative effort
on the part of 1,500 people representing federal, state, tribal and
local governments, research institutions including universities, businesses, agricultural organizations,
non governmental entities and private citizens to develop an Action
Plan to Restore and Protect the
Great Lakes; and
Whereas, Members of Congress
have introduced the Great Lakes
Collaboration Implementation Act,
which seeks approximately $20 billion over a five year period to fund
projects that implement the Action
Plan to Restore and Protect the
Great Lakes; and
Whereas, specifically, the Act will
provide funding to:
• Prevent and control aquatic
invasive species;
• Create and restore wetlands
and other fish and wildlife habitat;
• Reduce municipal sewage overflows;
• Clean up toxic sediments in
Great Lakes Areas of Concern, including the Cuyahoga River;
• Reduce mercury pollution;
• Otherwise implement the Action
Plan to Restore and Protect the
Great Lakes; and
Whereas, local governments need
financial
assistance
to
upgrade
wastewater treatment plants and
infrastructure, to reduce non-point
source pollution; and
Whereas, the Florida Everglades
and
other
nationally
significant
water resources have already bene-

December 13, 2006
fited from significant federal investments in restoration and protection; and
Whereas, the Great Lakes are a
treasured natural resource in need
of substantial state and federal
financial assistance; and
Whereas, protection of the Great
Lakes is a challenge of utmost significance and scope to the people
of the City of Cleveland, the Northeast Ohio region, the State of Ohio,
and all states and provinces that
comprise the Great Lakes’ basin;
and
Whereas, this monumental challenge includes working to safeguard the quality of the waters in
order to protect these freshwater
resources from threats of out-ofbasin water diversions and to continue to enable our use and enjoyment of this water resource within
the basin; and
Whereas, Canada and the United
States
created
the
International
Joint Commission through the 1909
Boundary Waters Treaty because
they recognized that the two countries need to cooperate in order to
manage these waters wisely and to
protect them for the benefit of current and future generations; and
Whereas, in June 2002, the Commission appointed the International
Water Uses Review Task Force to
assist it in carrying out a review of
the issue of water uses in the Great
Lakes basin and to prepare a report
on the topic; and
Whereas, the International Water
Uses Review Task Force finalized a
report to the International Joint
Commission, entitled “Protection of
Waters of the Great Lakes” that
encourages support for a more deliberative approach to finalizing the
Great Lakes Compact to establish
protection of waters of the Great
Lakes from diversion; and
Whereas, the Great Lakes Compact is an amendment to the Great
Lakes Charter of 1985, which is a
non-binding agreement signed by
the Governors of the eight states
and the Premiers of the two Canadian provinces that border the Great
Lakes; and
Whereas,
the
purpose
of
the
Great Lakes Compact is to forge a
new binding agreement to manage
the Great Lakes waters, develop a
decision-making standard for a new
or increased water withdrawals,
and make further commitments to
continue
to
improve
the
Great
Lakes water management system;
and
Whereas, the state of Ohio must
continue its proud tradition of protecting Lake Erie and fulfill its
commitment
to
protecting
and
restoring the Great Lakes by taking
substantial
steps
and,
whenever
practical, match federal funding to
implement the Great Lakes Collaboration Implementation Act; and
Whereas, the state of Ohio should
firmly establish its opposition to the
diversion of Great Lakes water for
the future protection of this important global resource that is vital to
strengthening the American and
Canadian economies and the vitality of the states and provinces along
the Great Lakes shores; and

The City Record
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby supports federal and state efforts
to restore the Great Lakes through
the federal “Great Lakes Collaboration Implementation Act” and the
State of Ohio’s “Great Lakes-St.
Lawrence River Basin Water Resources Compact”.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit copies of
this resolution to Ohio Congressional Delegation, the Governor of Ohio,
the members of the Ohio General
Assembly, the Great Lakes Regional Collaboration, International Joint
Commission
(Canada
&
United
States), Great Lakes Commission,
Council of Great Lakes Governors,
National League of Cities, and the
legislative leadership in the Great
Lakes states and provinces.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2107-06.
By Council Members Britt, Johnson, Sweeney, Pierce Scott, White,
Brancatelli, Santiago, Turner and
Cleveland.
An emergency resolution supporting the Greater Cleveland Delta
Foundation’s new location in the
City of Cleveland for its Life Development Center.
Whereas, the Greater Cleveland
Delta
Foundation
(the
“Foundation”) has distinguished itself as a
public
service
organization
that
actively confronts the issues facing
African Americans and all Americans; and
Whereas, the Foundation has its
roots in the Greater Cleveland Chapter of the Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc., a public service organization that awards more than $20,000
in scholarships annually and has
operated
supplemental
education,
parenting and healthy lifestyle initiatives in the Cleveland area for
more than 72 years; and
Whereas,
the
Foundation
has
entered into negotiations to purchase a building on Shaker Boulevard in the City of Cleveland to
serve as headquarters for its Life
Development Center; and
Whereas, the Greater Cleveland
Delta Foundation Life Development
Center (the “GCDFLDC”) is a nonprofit 501(C)(3) organization created to finance, build and operate
a life development center to house

2323

57
programs and services targeting
needy city residents of all ages;
and
Whereas,
the
GCDFLDC
will
house intergenerational public service programs designed to enhance
and improve the quality of life for
the City’s residents; and
Whereas, this Council supports
and
encourages
community-based
organizations like the GCDFLDC to
develop and operate programs that
strengthen
and
help
revitalize
Cleveland’s neighborhoods
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby supports the Greater Cleveland
Delta Foundation’s new location in
the City of Cleveland for its Life
Development Center.
Section 2. That the Clerk of
Council is hereby directed to transmit certified copies of this resolution to the appropriate persons at
the GCDFLDC and to Jon Morehead
of the Ohio Community Development
Finance Fund.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY ORDINANCE
Ord. No. 2006-06.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Johnson, Cimperman, Cleveland and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance declaring the improvement of certain real
property located in the City of
Cleveland, Ohio to be a public purpose; declaring such property to be
exempt from real property taxation;
requiring annual service payments
in lieu of taxes; acknowledging an
ongoing blight study and finding
the property to be in a blighted
area of an impacted city in the
event the blight study so finds and
concludes; approving the execution
of a Compensation Agreement; approving the execution of a Tax Increment
Financing
Agreement;
establishing a Veterans Administration Urban Redevelopment Tax
Increment Equivalent Fund; designating the uses for moneys deposited into the Veterans Administration
Urban Redevelopment Tax Increment Equivalent Fund; providing
related authorizations pursuant to
Ohio Revised Code Sections 5709.41,
5709.42 and 5709.43.

58
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In the third whereas clause, line
1, after “shown on the map” insert
“and more fully described in the
legal description”; and in line 2,
strike “2006-06-A” and insert “2006-06B”.
Amendment agreed to.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1062-06.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Johnson, Cimperman, Cleveland and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 559.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 109-56,
passed February 11, 1957, relating to
the designation of the Cleveland
Cultural Gardens; and to enact new
Sections
559.235
through
559.243
relating to future gardens.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property and
Recreation, City Planning, Legislation, Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 3, at new Section
559.243, strike lines 1 and 2 in their
entirety and insert the following:
“Section 559.243 Native American
Garden”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1254-06.
By Council Members Zone, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
the Keller II Water Tower at the
City of Brunswick and authorizing
the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commision,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1269-06.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brady and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Penn Court N.W.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,

The City Record
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1278-06.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance declaring the property located at 1570
East 105th Street blighted premises
under Sections 324.01 through 324.16
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,1976; and authorizing the
Director of Community Development
to acquire the blighted premises and
sell the premises to FEDCO Services, LLC.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council Member Sweeney elected
to recuse himself from the vote
regarding Ordinance No. 1278-06. He
further requested that the City
Record reflect his recusal.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1281-06.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 161.04 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 505-72,
passed June 19, 1972, relating to designation of landmarks and landmarks districts.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees
City
Planning,
Legislation,
Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at division (b)(7)
of amended Section 161.04, lines 3
and 6, strike “notice” and insert
“affidavit”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1364-06.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance declaring the property located at 3509
East 120th Street blighted premises
under Sections 324.01 through 324.16
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio,1976;
authorizing
the
Director of Community Development
to acquire the blighted premises and
sell the premises to KidsHealth
2020; and authorizing a project
agreement.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on

2324

December 13, 2006
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1446-06.
By
Council
Members
Conwell,
Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the acquisition of certain easement interests along East 115th
Street and Euclid Avenue for the
public improvement of eliminating
poles along Euclid Avenue as part
of the Euclid Corridor Transportation Project.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1448-06.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency for the Flats East
Bank Connector Project; and authorizing the Director to employ one or
more professional consultants to
implement the grant.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, lines 3 and 4; and
in Section 1, lines 2 and 3, after
“from”, insert “the State of Ohio
through” in both places.
2. In the title, lines 4 and 5; and
in Section 1, line 3, strike “Flats
East Bank Connector” and insert
“Eagle Avenue Alternatives”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1449-06.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brady and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to the United States General Services Administration to encroach into the public right-of-way at the Anthony
Celebrezze Federal Office Building
located on Lakeside Avenue and
East 9th Street by installing, using,
and maintaining Federally mandated security devices for “stand
off” and “crash” protection of the
facility.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.

December 13, 2006
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1470-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 347.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 285-80,
passed May 19, 1980, relating to
restrictions on location of stables,
poultry enclosures and other enclosures.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Building and
Housing, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Legislation,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1548-06.
By Council Members White, Johnson, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the
Director
of
Parks,
Recreation and Properties to lease
certain
property
to
Community
United Head Start and Day Care,
Inc. for a term of one year, with
five one year options to renew, at
the Earle B. Turner Recreation
Center
located
at
11300
Miles
Avenue, for the purpose of operating a day care.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property and
Recreation, City Planning, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 5, and Section
2, line 2, strike “five” and insert
“four”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1577-06.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to sell Cityowned property no longer needed for
public use located at the east corner
of Huron Road and East 4th Street
to System Property Development
Company, Inc., or its designee; and
authorizing the Director of Community Development to cause payment
to System Parking Development
Company, Inc.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance; when
amended as follows:

The City Record
1. In Section 4, line 2, strike “System Parking” and insert “System
Properties”.
2. Insert new Section 5 to read as
follows:
“Section 5. That the Director of
Community Development, or other
appropriate City official, is authorized to enter into any and all
agreements necessary to effectuate
this ordinance.”.
3. Renumber existing Section 5 to
new “Section 6”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1583-06.
By Council Members Britt, Conwell, Johnson, Cleveland, Brady,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to apply to the District One Public Works Integrating
Committee for state funding for the
Cornell
Road
Bridge,
Woodland
Avenue/Kinsman Road, East 30th
Street, and Bellaire Road Rehabilitation Phase II Projects and state
funding to obtain credit enhancements and loan assistance in support of the City’s general obligation
bonds issued for road and bridge
improvements.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City
Planning,
Finance;
when
amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 9, strike “West
105th” and insert “West 117th”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1585-06.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance to change
the name of East 117th Street between Durant and Whitmore to
Leonard B. Jackson Street.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service,
City
Planning,
Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. Strike the title and Section 1 in
its entirety and insert the following:
“An emergency ordinance designating East 117th Street between
Durant and Whitmore as “Leonard
B. Jackson Street” as a secondary
and honorary designation.”.
“Section 1. That East 117th Street
between Durant and Whitmore is
designated as Leonard B. Jackson
Street” as a secondary and honorary
designation.”.
Amendment agreed to.

2325

59
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1629-06.
By Council Members Zone, Britt,
Cleveland, Dolan, Pierce Scott, Conwell, Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An
emergency
ordinance
to
authorizing the Director of Public
Service to apply to the Northeast
Ohio
Areawide
Coordinating
Agency for various bridge projects
throughout the City; giving consent
of the City of Cleveland to the
improvements under the supervision of the State of Ohio, and
proposing to cooperate with the
State in certain matters incident to
the improvements.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City
Planning,
Finance;
when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, at the end, strike
the period and insert “; authorizing
the Director to employ one or more
professional consultants to complete
the Project Development Process
Steps 1 through 8 for a new pedestrian bridge connecting Voinovich
Park to the Great Lakes Science
Center; and authorizing the director
to enter into one or more contracts
with the State of Ohio to accept
funds.”.
2. In Section 4, line 2, strike “participation of” and insert “participation or”.
3. In Section 6, line 6, strike
“involate” and insert “inviolate”; and
in line 7, strike “sighs” and insert
“signs”.
4. In Section 9, line 1, strike “he”
and insert “the”.
5. Add new Sections 10, 11, and
12 to read as follows:
“Section 10. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed
staff
of
the
several
departments of the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to complete
the Project Development Process
Steps 1 through 8 for a new pedestrian bridge connecting Voinovich
Park to the Great Lakes Science
Center.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public
Service from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Service for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized shall be prepared
by the Director of Law, approved

60
by the Director of Public Service,
and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 11. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with the
Ohio Department of Transportation
to accept the federal funds necessary for the contract or contracts
authorized in Section 10 of this ordinance.
Section 12. That the cost of the
contract or contracts authorized in
Section 10 of this ordinance shall be
paid from the funds accepted in Section 11 of this ordinance.”.
6. Renumber existing Section 10 to
new “Section 13”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1630-06.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
sized front-end loader dumpster containers and concrete receptacle lids,
for the Division of Waste Collection
and Disposal, Department of Public
Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1631-06.
By Council Members Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An
emergency
ordinance
to
amend the title, and Sections 1 and
2 of Ordinance No. 1228-98, passed
December 14, 1998, relating to a
consent agreement with the County for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of various bridges, to add
the resurfacing of Triskett Road;
to cause payment of the City’s
share of Triskett Road to the
Cuyahoga County Commissioners
for the improvement; to supplement the ordinance by adding new
Section 9; and to renumber existing Sections 9 and 10 to new Sections 10 and 11.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1642-06.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance designating the portion of East 140th
Street between Abel Avenue and
Benwood Avenue as “Anna ‘Mama’
Chatman Way” as a secondary and
honorary designation.

The City Record
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City
Planning,
Finance;
when
amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 2 after “Avenue”, insert “will also be known”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1684-06.
By Council Members Coats, Johnson, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into a
concession agreement for the operation of a food and beverage concession at Collinwood Athletic Complex
for one year with two one-year
options to renew.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property and
Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1689-06.
By Council Members Lewis, Johnson, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to sell Cityowned property no longer needed
for public use located between East
88th and East 92nd Streets, and
Wade Park Avenue to Morris Court
to the Cleveland Municipal School
District for the purpose of constructing the new Daniel Morgan
Elementary School.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation,
and
Properties,
City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property and
Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1756-06.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the procurement by one or more
requirement contracts of rental of
golf carts, for the Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, for a period up
to five years.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property
and Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

2326

December 13, 2006
Ord. No. 1766-06.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 341.221 relating to the
creation of the University Circle
Design District; and repealing Section 341.06 as amended by Ordinance
No. 841-59, passed April 27, 1959,
relating to performance bond for
building alterations.
Approved by Directors of Building
and Housing, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
City Planning, Legislation, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 4; and in Section 1, line 2, strike “341.221” and
insert “341.023”; and in Section 1, line
3,
strike
“341.221”
and
insert
“341.023”.
2. In Section 1, at new Section
341.221(d), line 7, after “of the District.” insert “The City Planning
Commission shall appoint those
members who are not design professionals from nominations made
to the Commission by the City
Council
members
representing
wards that are located in whole or
in part within the boundaries of
the District.”.
3. In Section 2, line 2, strike “2959”
and insert “1959”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1810-06.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 70th Street to
Lawrence Calloway.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1811-06.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as
part of the Land Reutilization Program and located on Kosciuszko,
Sowinski,
Pulaski
Avenues
to
Cleveland Municipal School District.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

December 13, 2006
Ord. No. 1817-06.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance designating The Justus Cozad House as
a Cleveland Landmark.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1820-06.
By Council Members Kelley, Westbrook, Brancatelli, Britt, Cleveland,
Dolan and Turner.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland Ohio, 1976 by enacting
new Section 443.37; to amend Sections 443.03, 443.06, and 443.26 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1828-77, passed June 8, 1978, Ordinance No. 1913-77, passed June 8,
1978 and Ordinance No. 1066-06,
passed June 12, 2006, respectively;
and to repeal Section 443.07 as
amended by Ordinance No. 1913-77,
passed June 8, 1978, relating to taxi
cabs.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation,
Legislation,
Finance;
when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 3, strike “Section 443.37” and insert “Sections
443.37 and 443.38”.
2. In Section 1, line 1, strike “hereby”; and in line 2, strike “new Section 443.37” and insert “new Sections
443.37 and 443.38”.
3. In Section 1, at new Section
443.37, division (a)(4), line 1, strike
“a free ride if the meter is not in a
recording position;” and insert “a
free ride if the taximeter is not in
a recording position, unless the taxicab is being hired at the request of
the passenger on an hourly rate
basis;”
4. In Section 1, at new Section
443.37, strike division (a)(6)(vi) in
its entirety.
5. In Section 1, at new Section
443.37, in division (a)(7)(ii), line 1,
strike “routs” and insert “routes”.
6. In Section 1, after new Section
443.37, insert the following new Section 443.38 to read as follows:
“Section 443.38
Fines for Violating Rules and Regulations
(a) The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall assess
fines to taxicab drivers and taxicab
companies for violations of the
Rules and Regulations governing
their conduct as published in the
City Record.
(b) The authority to assess fines
under this section does not limit or
affect any criminal offense, or the
authority of the Commissioner to
suspend or revoke a license under
Section 443.36, or any other means
of enforcement of this chapter provided for in these Codified Ordinances.”.
7. In Section 2, at amended Section
443.06, division (a), lines 5 to 7,
strike “with the following limits:

The City Record
$300,000 per vehicle, $100,000 per person, $300,000 per accident, $100,000
for property, and $50,000 for uninsured or underinsured.” and insert
the following: “with the following
limits: 100,000 per person, $300,000
per vehicle, and $100,000 for property damage, or a combined single
limit policy of $300,000.”.
8. In Section 2, at amended Section
443.06, after division (b), insert new
division (c) to read as follows:
“(c) A self-insured retention plan
that is equivalent or better, in the
judgment of the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses, than the
insurance described in this section
may be accepted by the Commissioner in lieu of a policy or certificate of insurance.”.
9. In Section 2, at amended Section
443.26(a), line 1, after “taxicabs”
insert “including sales tax”; in line
3, strike “one-sixth” and insert “oneeighth”; and in line 9, strike “one
dollar ($1.00) per person for each
passenger over four (4) passengers.”
and insert “an additional one dollar
($1.00) per person for each passenger over twelve years of age.”.
10. On the third page, strike Sections 2 and 3 in their entirety and
insert the following:
“Section 3. That existing Sections
443.03, 443.06, 443.07 and 443.26 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1828-77, passed June 8, 1878, Ordinance No. 1913-77, passed June 8,
1978 and Ordinance No. 1066-06,
passed June 12, 2006, are repealed.
Section 4. That the Rules and Regulations contained in legislative
File No. 1820-06-A are established to
govern the conduct of taxicab drivers and taxicab companies, and
shall be published in full in the City
Record along with the publication of
the enacted version of this ordinance. The Rules and Regulations
shall take effect 10 days after the
date of their publication.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately on its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1843-06.
By Council Members Zone, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of cleaning and
cement mortar lining of various distribution water mains; and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more public improvement contracts for the

2327

61
making of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Utilities, City Planning, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 4, and in Section 1, line 2, insert after “lining”
“and replacement, where deemed
appropriate,”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1845-06.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide air service
consulting and advising services, for
a period of three years with two
options to renew for additional oneyear periods.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 5, strike lines
5 and 6 in their entirety and insert
“services.”.
2. In Section 1, strike “three years
with two” and insert “two years
with three”.
3. In Section 1, at the end, strike
the period and insert “, except that
no options shall be exercised unless
first approved by additional legislative authority of this Council.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1846-06.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide business management consulting services, for a
period of three years with two
options to renew for additional oneyear periods.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In the title, strike lines 4, 5, and
6 in their entirety and insert “obtain
business relations consulting services.”.
2. In Section 1, lines 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
and 9 in their entirety and insert
“of the City of Cleveland in order
to provide professional services
necessary to obtain business relations consulting services for the
Department of Port Control, for a

62
period of two years with three
options to renew for additional oneyear periods, exercisable by the
director of Port Control, except
that no options shall be exercised
unless first approved by additional
legislative authority of this Council.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1853-06.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section
2
of
Ordinance
2380-02,
passed December 16, 2002, as amended by Ordinance No. 468-04, passed
April 26, 2004, relating to planning
studies for the Department of Port
Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1854-06.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to apply for and accept a grant
from the Ohio Department of Natural Resources for the 2007 Community Development Grant (Recycle Ohio) Program; authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more
contracts with various agencies to
implement the program; and authorizing one or more contracts for the
purchase of materials, equipment,
supplies, and services for the program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, line 5, and in Section
1, line 3, strike “(Recycle Ohio)”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1855-06.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brady and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to enter into an amendment to
Contract No. 64009 with Arcadis G
& M of Ohio, Inc., formerly known
as Arcadis FPS, Inc. to proceed
with final engineering services
and Stage 3 services for the Besse-

The City Record
mer Avenue Extension Phase II
project.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 2, line 6, strike “(RL
157071)” and insert “(RL 175071)”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1856-06.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Friendship Baptist
Church to encroach into the public
right-of-way of Central Avenue with
3 banners to be attached to Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by
separate permission).
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1857-06.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Zaremba
Avenue LLC to encroach into the
public right-of-way of St Clair Avenue, East 12th Street and Hamilton
Avenue by installing, using, and
maintaining the building foundation system for a parking garage
and residential building and maintaining trench sheeting for the
structures.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1858-06.
By Council Members Kelley, Brady
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials to clean and maintain
scale pits at the Ridge Road Scale
House and Ridge Road Transfer Station, for the Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Department of
Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.

2328

December 13, 2006
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1859-06.
By Council Members Kelley, Brady
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts for processing
of recyclables, for the Division of
Waste
Collection
and
Disposal,
Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1860-06.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Kelley, Brady and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to
the Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio to install a climbing
system on the East 34th Street
Bridge over Norfolk Southern Railroad in the city of Cleveland; authorizing the Director of Public Service
to enter into any relative agreements.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1861-06.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance changing
the name of East 156th Place between Saranac Road and Holmes
Avenue to “Father John Kumse Way.”
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City
Planning,
Finance;
when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 2, strike
“Changing the name of” and insert
“Designating”, in line 3, strike “to”
and insert “as” and at the end strike
the period and insert “as a secondary street name and honorary
designation.”.
2. Strike Section 1 in its entirety
and insert:
“Section 1. That East 156th Place
between Saranac Road and Holmes
Avenue is designated as “Father
John Kumse Way” as a secondary
street name and honorary designation.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

The City Record

December 13, 2006

63

Ord. No. 1871-06.
By Council Members Britt, Conwell, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting new Sections 135.57, 135.58, 135.59, 135.60, 135.61, 135.62, and 135.63, relating to transferring the Division of Correction from
the Department of Public Health to the Department of Public Safety; to amend Sections 135.01 and 141.02, as
amended by various ordinances; and to repeal Sections 141.06, 141.07, 141.071, 141.072, 141.08, 141.081, and 141.09, as
amended by various ordinances relating to the Division of Correction.
Approved by Directors of Public Health, Public Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Health and Human Services, Public Safety, Legislation, Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 3, after “Sections” insert “135.180,”; in line 5, strike “and 135.63” and add “, 135.63, 135.64,
135.65, 135.66, 135.67, 135.68, 135.69, and 135.70”; in line 8, strike “and 141.02” and insert “, 135.061, 135.17, 135.18,
135.43, 141.02, and 141.05”; and in line 11, strike “and 141.09” and insert “, 141.09, 141.091, 141.27, and 141.28”.
2. In Section 1, line 5, after “Sections” insert “135.180,”; and also in line 5, strike “and 135.63” and add “, 135.63,
135.64, 135.65, 135.66, 135.67, 135.68, 135.69, and 135.70”.
3. In Section 1, after line 6, and before amended Section 135.57, insert the following new section:
“Section 135.180

Expenditure of Donated Funds for the Division of Dog Pound

Expenditures from accounts shall be made on vouchers signed by the Director of Public Safety, or his designee,
when the amount is less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000); otherwise such expenditure shall first be authorized
by ordinance of Council in the manner provided in Charter Section 108.

No part of any funds credited to the

accounts shall be paid to or for the benefit of any officer of employee, either as additional compensation or as
reimbursement for expenses incurred, or paid for purposes other than those directly benefiting the Division of
Dog Pound or in any manner other than that applicable to the expenditure of other public funds, unless the payment is specifically provided for in the terms of the gift or authorized by resolution or ordinance of Council.”.
4. In Section 1, at new Section 135.58(a), line 1, strike “A person” and insert “In accordance with Chapter 2929
of the Revised Code, a person”; strike lines 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 in their entirety and insert “food, clothing, medical
care, shelter, home detention, a one-time reception fee for the costs of processing, and the fee for a random drug
test as assessed under Section 753.33 of the Revised Code.”; in line 10, strike “No person” and insert “However,
no person”; and strike division (b) in its entirety and insert:
“(b) The Commissioner of the Division of Correction, or his designee, shall serve as the Reimbursement Coordinator and shall promulgate Rules of Procedure necessary for the administration of this policy.”.
5. In Section 1, strike Section 135.63 in its entirety and insert the following new Sections:
“Section 135.63

Uniform Maintenance Allowances for the Division of Correction

The Director of Public Safety is authorized to cause payment for a uniform allowance and uniform maintenance allowance to employees in the non-bargaining classifications of Project Coordinator and Correctional supervisor who are required to wear uniforms, in the same amount as the amount established by collective bargaining agreement for Guard, House of Correction Guard, and Institutional Guard.
Section 135.64

Treatment of Indigent Alcoholics, Drug Addicts

The Director of Public Safety shall have the authority to accept at the House of Correction without a commitment from a court, any indigent resident of Cleveland who is in need of treatment for the cure of the drug
or intoxicating liquor habit, when the other resources of the City are inadequate or unavailable. For the purpose
of the treatment, the Director may permit any indigent prisoner, resident of Cleveland, who so requests, to remain
after the expiration of his or her sentence. Every application for admission or for permission to remain after
expiration of sentence, for the purpose of treatment, shall be on a form to be approved by the Director, and shall
contain an affidavit by the applicant that he or she is a resident of Cleveland and is indigent. No application
shall be granted until the need for treatment has been ascertained and certified to by the examining doctor who
shall be in the employ of the City. The certificate shall be filed with the original application in the Department
of Public Safety. Any permit to receive treatment for the drug or intoxicating liquor habit at the House of Correction may be revoked at any time by the Director when, in the Director’s opinion, the needs of the individual
or the public are best served by so doing.
Section 135.65

Correctional Officer Training

The Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into agreements with educational institutions to provide
training for corrections officers employed by the Division of Corrections that meet the requirements of the Ohio
Peace Officer Training Academy for the officers.
Section 135.66

Purchase of Clothing, Bedding, and Shoes for Inmates

(a) The Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into standard purchase or requirement contracts duly
let to the lowest and best bidders after competitive bidding, for the purchase of clothing, bedding, and shoes for
inmates, for terms of one year as determined by the Director of Public Safety to be necessary to the operation
of the Division of Correction.

Any purchases made under this section shall be made by the Commissioner of Pur-

chases and Supplies and paid from the annual appropriations made for this purpose.
(b) As to requirement contracts, alternate bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into one or more contracts for a term of two years instead
of one year when there is a financial advantage to the City.

For purposes of this section, a financial advantage

shall be determined by the Director of Public Safety by comparing the bids received for both terms.

2329

The City Record

64

December 13, 2006

Section 135.67 Purchase of Prescription and Non-prescription Drugs for Inmates
(a) The Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into standard purchase or requirement contracts duly
let to the lowest and best bidders after competitive bidding, for the purchase of prescription and non-prescription
drugs for inmates, for terms of one year as determined by the Director of Public Safety to be necessary to the
operation of the Division of Correction. Any purchases made under this section shall be made by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies and paid from the annual appropriations made for this purpose.
(b) As to requirement contracts, alternate bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into one or more contracts for a term of two years instead
of one year when there is a financial advantage to the City. For purposes of this section, a financial advantage
shall be determined by the Director of Public Safety by comparing the bids received for both terms.
Section 135.68 Acceptance of Gifts and Services for the Division of Correction
The Director of Public Safety is authorized to accept with the grateful appreciation of the City the funds, other
personal properties, and services, unconditionally given or limited by conditions as the donor may impose, or unlimited as to specific use, as may from time to time be donated for the use and benefit of the Division of Correction.
Section 135.69 Establishment of Special Accounts for the Division of Correction
All money accepted under Section 135.68 shall be placed to the credit of the Division of Correction in a special
revenue fund. The moneys deposited in the special revenue fund shall be expended for the benefit of the Division of Correction at the discretion of the Director of Public Safety, or in the manner and for the specific purpose named in the gift.
Section 135.70 Expenditure of Donated Funds for the Division of Correction
Expenditures from accounts shall be made on vouchers signed by the Director of Public Safety, or his designee,
when the amount is less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000); otherwise the expenditure shall first be authorized
by ordinance of Council in the manner provided in Charter Section 108. No part of any funds so credited to the
accounts shall be paid to or for the benefit of any officer of employee, either as additional compensation or as
reimbursement for expenses incurred, or paid for purposes other than those directly benefiting the division or in
any manner other than that applicable to the expenditure of other public funds, unless the payment is specifically provided for in the terms of the gift or authorized by resolution or ordinance of Council.”.
6. In Section 2, at the legislative history for Section 141.081, line 2, strike “and”; then after the legislative history for Section 141.09, add the following:
“Section 141.091, as amended by Ordinance No. 1564-99, passed November 22, 1999;
Section 141.27, as amended by Ordinance No. 2277-85, passed November 25, 1985; and
Section 141.28, as amended by Ordinance No. 2206-00, passed December 18, 2000,”.
7. In Section 3, strike lines 3, 4, 5, and 6 in their entirety and insert: “Safety are amended, and for such purposes, the following Sections:
Section 135.01, as amended by Ordinance No. 919-A-42, passed August 31, 1942,
Section 135.061, as amended by Ordinance No. 2035-87, passed January 25, 1988,
Sections 135.17 and 135.18, as amended by Ordinance No. 3052-83, passed March 26, 1984;
Section 135.43, as amended by Ordinance No. 1832-83, passed January 9, 1984,
Section 141.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 1615-72, passed November 13, 1972, and
Section 141.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 924-82, passed November 22, 1982
are amended to read as follows:”.
8. In Section 3, after amended Section 135.01, insert the following sections:
“Section 135.061 Uniform Allowances
The Director is authorized to issue purchase requisitions to the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, against
any requirements or other contract for uniforms, for the following employees whose maximum allowance is set
out below:

(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
(k)
(l)
(m)
(n)

Initial
Allowance
$350

Police; Patrol
Police; Supervisory
Firefighters
Emergency Medical Technicians
Police Radio Dispatchers
Police Radio Technicians
Police Tow Truck Operators
Police Traffic Controllers
Dog Wardens
Bilingual Communication Specialist
Safety Telephone Operators
Guards/Matrons
Division of Correction Guard
Institutional Guard

200
225
200
225
225
150
225
350
350
275
275
275

2330

Annual Replacement
Allowance
$250
200
250
200
350
275
225
150
225

250
250
250

December 13, 2006

The City Record

65

Section 135.17 Acceptance of Gifts and Services for the Division of Dog Pound
The Director of Public Safety is authorized to accept, with the grateful appreciation of the City, the funds,
other personal properties, and services, unconditionally given or limited by conditions as the donor may impose,
or unlimited as to specific use, as may from time to time be donated for the use and benefit of the Division of
Dog Pound.
Section 135.18 Special Revenue Fund Established for the Division of Dog Pound
All moneys accepted under Section 135.17 shall be placed to the credit of the Division of Dog Pound in a special revenue fund. The moneys deposited in the special revenue fund shall be expended for the benefit of the
Division of Dog Pound at the discretion of the Director of Public Safety, or in the manner and for the specific
purpose named in the gift.
Section 135.43 Employment of Licensed Medical Professionals
The Director of Public Safety is authorized to contract for professional services of licensed medical professionals as may be necessary for the administration and operation of the Department of Public Safety and the
several divisions and activities comprising the Department of Public Safety. All contracts shall require the medical professionals to indemnify the city and provide insurance coverage acceptable to the Director of Public Safety and the Director of Law.”.
9. In Section 3, after amended Section 141.02, insert the following section:
“Section 141.05 Expenditure of Donated Funds
Expenditures from accounts shall be made on vouchers signed by the appropriate commissioner and the Director of Public Health when the amount is less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000); otherwise the expenditure shall
first be authorized by ordinance of Council in the manner provided in Charter Section 108. No part of any funds
so credited to the accounts shall be paid to or for the benefit of any officer of employee, either as additional compensation or as reimbursement for expenses incurred, or paid for purposes other than those directly benefiting the
divisions or in any manner other than that applicable to the expenditure of other public funds, unless the payment is specifically provided for in the terms of the gift or authorized by resolution or ordinance of Council.”.
10. In Section 4, strike lines 3, 4, 5, and 6 in their entirety and insert: “Safety are amended, and for such purposes, the following Sections:
Section 135.01, as amended by Ordinance No. 919-A-42, passed August 31, 1942,
Section 135.061, as amended by Ordinance No. 2035-87, passed January 25, 1988,
Sections 135.17 and 135.18, as amended by Ordinance No. 3052-83, passed March 26, 1984;
Section 135.43, as amended by Ordinance No. 1832-83, passed January 9, 1984,
Section 141.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 1615-72, passed November 13, 1972, and
Section 141.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 924-82, passed November 22, 1982
are repealed.”.
11. Insert new Sections 6 and 7 to read as follows:
“Section 6. That the sum of $2,343,160 is transferred as follows:
GENERAL FUND
GENERAL GOVERNMENT
Transfer
To
___________

Transfer
From
___________

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Division of Correction
I Personnel and Related Expenses
II Other Expenses

$
$

1,463,308
879,852

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

$

2,343,160

$
$

-

$
$
$

1,463,308
879,852

$

2,343,160

$

2,343,160

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Division of Correction
I Personnel and Related Expenses
II Other Expenses

$

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

$

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$

-

2,343,160

Section 7. That these provisions shall be effective on January 1, 2007.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21. Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member of Council
before final passage.

2331

66
Ord. No. 1878-06.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into an agreement with Case
Western
Reserve
University
to
accept police services by Case Western Reserve University within such
areas as may be agreed to within
the City.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1879-06.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 135.091 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 436-95,
passed March 13, 1995, relating to
the expense fund for the Chief of
Police.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committees on Public Safety, Legislation; Passage recommended by
Committee on Finance; when amended as follows:
1. Insert new Sections 3 and 4 to
read as follows:
“Section 3. That the Chief of
Police, in coordination with the
Director of Finance, shall cause
these funds to be available whenever needed for use by the Division of
Police.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety shall report to this
Council quarterly on the amount of
money spent from this fund, and
shall report annually on the value
of property seized by narcotics officers of the Division of Police.”.
2. Renumber existing Section 3 as
new “Section 5”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1880-06.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
one or more contracts with City
Year to perform community service
work and to collaborate with various non-profit agencies.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property
and Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1881-06.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Pierce Scott, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to apply for and accept

The City Record
a grant from the United States Environmental
Protection
Agency
to
implement the lower Woolen Mills
Project; and authorizing the Director to employ one or more professional consultants to perform an
environmental cleanup of the property located at Morgana Avenue aka
6118 Broadway Avenue; and authorizing the director to enter into one
or more contracts with URS Corporation for professional services necessary to perform technical assistance necessary to implement the
project.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1882-06.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a development agreement with J. Christopher
Enterprises, Inc., or its designee, for
the redevelopment of 2065 Scranton
Road into residential condominium
units, green space, and parking.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1883-06.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a development agreement with Howells and
Howells Enterprises, LLC, or its
designee, for the redevelopment of
the Park Building, located at 140
Public Square and 2000 Ontario
Street.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1887-06.
By Council Members Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located on New Grayton Road and
known as New Lot 3A, to Jonathan
W. Ullrich.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.

2332

December 13, 2006
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1888-06.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 60th Street to
William
Ladd
and
Noami
R.
Franklin Ladd.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1889-06.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 60th Street to
Eric Payne.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1890-06.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 66th Street to
Viola M. Super and Lucius C. Oldham, Jr.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1891-06.
By Council Members Lewis and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to employ one or
more professional consultants to
conduct a feasibility study for the
purposes of exploring whether the
City of Cleveland should become
self-insured for workers compensation purposes.
Approved by Directors of Personnel
and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Employment, Affirmative
Action and Training, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1893-06.
By Council Members Britt, Pierce
Scott and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to apply
for and accept a grant from the

December 13, 2006
Western Reserve Area Agency on
Aging for the Family Caregiver Support Program; and authorizing the
Director of Community Development
to enter into contracts necessary to
implement the program.
Approved by Directors of Aging,
Community Development, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health and Human Services, Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1904-06.
Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to add
the name Cleveland Street as a secondary name to West 11th Street
between Rowley Avenue and Buhrer
Avenue.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1961-06.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into an
agreement with Ticketmaster for
ticket equipment and services, for
the Division of Convention Center
and Stadium, for a period of three
years, with one option to renew for
an additional two-year period.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property
and Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1962-06.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into an
agreement with Cuyahoga County
Board of Health to partially finance
and effectuate the County improvement to a Mill Creek tributary that
runs through Highland Park Golf
Course.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property
and Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1965-06.
By Council Members Turner, Santiago, Polensek, Cleveland, Brady,
Cimperman, Pierce Scott, Coats, Kelley, Cummins, Sweeney, Britt, Dolan
and Zone.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 623.08 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
passed June 30, 2006 relating to sentences for vandalism of vacant
buildings and structures.

The City Record
Approved by Directors of Building
and Housing, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees
on Community and Economic Development, Legislation, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 3; in Section 1,
line 2; and in Section 2, line 2, after
“1976” strike “passed June 30, 2006”
and insert “as amended by Ordinance No. 1046-75, passed June 30,
1975”.
2. In Section 1, at amended Section
623.08(d), line 2, after “guilty of”
insert “vandalism of vacant buildings and structures, a”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 2007-06.
By Council Members Britt, Lewis,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 5 of Ordinance No. 257-97,
passed April 14, 1997, as amended by
various ordinances, relating to expending Economic Development Initiative Grant and Section 108 Funds
for the operation of the Empowerment Zone Business Opportunity
Program and to enter into contracts
under this program.
Approved
by
Directors
of
Economic
Development,
Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2009-06.
By Council Members Britt, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
lease property at 19200 Cranwood
Parkway in Warrensville Heights,
Ohio, from M.B.D. Realty, LLC. for a
term not to exceed six months, for
the public purpose of occupying
space to store and maintain vehicles
for the Cleveland House of Corrections.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 2, and in Section 1, line 3, strike “Health” and
insert “Safety”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 2010-06.
By Council Members White, Britt,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to

2333

67
lease space at property located at
9111 and 9119 Miles Avenue from
Dominic Festa, or his designee, for
a one-year period, with one option to
renew for an additional year, for the
public purpose of vehicle-storage
parking for the Division of Air Quality, Department of Public Health, for
a period of one year with one option
to renew for an additional one-year
period.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health and
Human
Services,
City
Planning,
Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 7; and in the
first whereas clause, line 2, strike
“vehicle-storage parking” and insert
“vehicle parking and storage”.
2. In Section 1, line 5, and in Section 4, line 3, after “store” insert “or
park”.
3. In Section 2, line 1, strike
“s7hall” and insert “shall”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 2011-06.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to maintain and
repair elevators at various city
health centers, for the Division of
Health,
Department
of
Public
Health, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, lines 6 and 7 strike
“, for a period not to exceed two
years”.
2. In Section 1, line 3, strike “not
to exceed two years” and insert “of
one or two years”; and at the end,
add “The Director of Public Health
is authorized to enter into one or
more contracts with a term of two
years instead of one year when
there is a financial advantage to the
City.
For purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall
be determined by the Director of
Public Health by comparing the bids
received for both terms.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 2012-06.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of salting and
snowplowing parking lots, walkways, and sidewalks at City health
centers and the Public Health Ad-

68
ministration Building, for the Division of Health, Department of Public Health, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, lines 6 and 7 strike
“, for a period not to exceed two
years”.
2. In Section 1, line 3, strike “of
two years” and insert “of one or two
years”; and at the end, add “The
Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with a term of two years
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Public Health by
comparing the bids received for both
terms.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 2051-06.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to extend the
Citywide VOIP communication system, including but not limited to
equipment, cables, cabling, installation, and training, necessary to relocate the Downtown One Stop Career
Center to 1020 Bolivar, for the Department of Economic Development.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance; when amended
as follows:
1. In the title, line 4, strike “extent” and insert “link”; and strike
lines 7 and 8 in their entirety and
insert “training, to the relocated
Downtown One Stop Career Center
at 1020 Bolivar, for the”.
2. In Section 1, line 3, strike “one
year” and insert “one-year”; strike
line 4 in its entirety and insert
“items of labor and materials necessary to link the Citywide VOIP”; in
line 6, strike “necessary to relocate
the” and insert “to the relocated”;
and in line 7, strike “to 1020 Bolivar” and insert “at 1020 Bolivar”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 2052-06.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a

The City Record
grant from LNE & Associates, LLC
for the PROES - Building HOPE Program.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2053-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a development agreement with The K & D
Group or its designee, for the redevelopment of 2019 Center Street into
residential units, office space, retail
space, parking and streetscape.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage
recommended
by
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, lines 5 and 6, and
in Section 1, line 4, strike “redevelopment of 2019 Center Street” and
insert “development of”.
2. In the title, at the end, and in
Section 1 at the end, strike both
periods and insert “on the west bank
of the Cuyahoga River in the Flats
located near the Superior Avenue
Viaduct.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
SECOND READING
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1549-06.
By Council Member Coats.
An ordinance changing the Use
Districts of parcels bounded by
Deise
Avenue,
Maxwell
Avenue,
Aspinwall Avenue, E. 140th Street
and including portions of Cobalt
Avenue and Saranac Road as shown
on the attached map from SemiIndustry and General Industry to
Residence Industry (Map Change
Number 2192, Sheet 7).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1765-06.
By Council Member Polensek.
An ordinance to change the zoning of property on the south side of
Shawnee Avenue near the intersection of Neff Road and East 185th
Street to a Two Family Residential
District (Map Change No. 2197, Sheet
No. 7).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

2334

December 13, 2006
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1885-06.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of land located on the northwest corner of West 65th Street and
Storer
Avenue,
south
of
Clark
Avenue from General Retail Business to a Shopping Center District
(Map Change Number 2195, Sheet 2).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1895-06.
By Council Members Britt, Pierce
Scott and Conwell.
An ordinance establishing the University
Circle
Design
District
(UCDD) (Map Change No. 2198,
Sheet Numbers 4, 8 & 9).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1896-06.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height District of a parcel of land on the south side of Saint
Catherine Avenue near East 93rd
Street shown shaded on the attached
map from Two Family Residential,
a ‘B’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height
District to a General Retail Business
District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’
Height District (Map Change No.
2200, Sheet 6).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1897-06.
By Council Member Coats.
An ordinance to change the Use
and Area Districts of land on the
east side of East 150th Street north
of Saint Clair Avenue from a Two
Family Residential District, a ‘B’
Area District to a Multi-Family Residential District and a ‘C’ Area District (Map Change No. 2201, Sheet 7).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1898-06.
By Council Members Cummins and
Cimperman.
An ordinance to change zoning of
land on vacated Jennings Road
north of Beltline Street south of
Interstate 71 from a Two Family
Residential District a ‘B’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height District to a
Unrestricted Industry District, an ‘A’

December 13, 2006
Area District and a ‘3’ Height District (Map Change No. 2202, Sheet
No. 6).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1973-06
By Council Member Coats.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height Districts of the
rear half of a parcel of land on the
north side of Euclid Avenue east of
Avalon Road to a Multi-Family Residential District, a ‘D’ Area District
and a ‘3’ Height District (Map
Change Number 2205, Sheet 7).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED
Res. No. 1468-06.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brady and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
West Lakeside Avenue N.W.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1578-06.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brady and Sweeney (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
Stuber Court N.E.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1720-06.
By Council Members Lewis, Brady,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
East 66th Place (12 feet wide),
extending from the southerly right
of way line of Linwood Avenue N.E.
(60 feet wide), southerly approximately 250 feet.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Res. No. 1862-06.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brady and Sweeney (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
East 12th Street and a portion of St.
Clair Avenue N.E.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
9:15 p.m. to meet Monday, January
8, 2007 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chambers.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

December 6, 2006
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, December 6,
2006, at 10:30 a.m. with Director Triozzi presiding.
Present: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Ciaccia, Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,
Acting Directors Thompson, Wilbur,
Directors Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Reilly.
Others: Jim Hardy, Commissioner,
Purchases and Supplies.
Debra Linn Talley, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 551-06.
By Director Dumas.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1067-01, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on July 18,
2001, and Board of Control Resolution No. 134-03, adopted March 12,
2003, as amended by Resolution No.
307-03, adopted May 28, 2003, the
City,
through
the
Director
of
Finance, entered into Contract No.
61386 with ADP, Inc. for a human
resources information system, including licensing, implementation,
training, and technical support services for one (1) year with four (4)
options, exercisable by the Director
of Finance, to renew for additional

2335

69
consecutive one year terms, and for
payroll and check processing services, for the various departments of
the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, on December 21, 2004,
the City entered into a First Amendment to Contract No. 61386 to adopt
a new Scope of Services to be performed by ADP; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1547-06,
passed by the Cleveland City Council on October 25, 2006, amended
Ordinance No. 1067-01, passed July
18, 2001, by increasing the optional
renewal terms exercisable under the
agreement the Director of Finance
was authorized to enter into with a
computer software developer or vendor from four to nine; and
Whereas, ADP proposed by its
October 1, 2006 letter to decrease its
check processing fee and other
charges in consideration of the City
increasing the number of optional
renewal terms available under Contract No. 61386; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 134-03, adopted by
this Board March 12, 2003, as amended by Resolution No. 307-03, adopted
May 28, 2003, selecting ADP, Inc. as
the computer software developer or
vendor firm to be employed by contract to provide a human resources
information
system,
including
licensing, implementation, training,
and technical support services and
for payroll and check processing
services, for one (1) year with four
(4) renewal options, is amended by
substituting “nine (9) options” for
“four (4) options”, where appearing.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Finance is authorized to
enter into Second Amendment to
Contract No. 61386 with ADP, Inc.
to
incorporate
the
increase
in
optional renewal terms authorized
by Ordinance No. 1067-01, passed by
the Cleveland City Council July 18,
2001, from four terms to nine terms,
and to amend the Agreement by
reducing the Payroll Service fee,
adding an Internet Connectivity
charge,
and
eliminating
certain
update and support charges, as set
forth in detail in ADP’s October 1,
2006 proposal.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
134-06, as amended by Resolution No.
307-03, not expressly amended above
shall remain unchanged and in full
force and effect
Be it further resolved, that the
Director of Finance is authorized to
execute all documents and to do all
things necessary to effect the Second Amendment to Contract No.
61386 approved above.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Ciaccia, Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,
Acting Directors Thompson, Wilbur,
Directors Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Reilly.
Resolution No. 552-06.
By Director Ciaccia.
Whereas, under Board of Control
Resolution No. 211-06, adopted on
May 31, 2006, the City of Cleveland
entered into City Contract No. 65770
with Aqua-Tech Environmental Lab-

70
oratory for an estimated quantity of
laboratory services for water quality analysis for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, by its letter, Alloway
informed the City that on October
12, 2006, it purchased the assets of
Aqua-Tech Environmental Laboratory; and will honor all quotes, purchases orders, terms and conditions
that the City previously agreed upon
with Aqua-Tech Environmental Laboratory under City Contract No.
65770; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
this Board acknowledges and consents to the assignment of City Contract No. 65770 from Aqua-Tech
Environmental Laboratory to Alloway.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to execute any Documents necessary to effect and recognize the
consent to the assignment of City
Contract No. 65770 authorized above.
A copy of the consent to assignment
and the assignment of Contract No.
65770 shall be filed with the original contract in the custody of the
Commissioner of Accounts.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Ciaccia, Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,
Acting Directors Thompson, Wilbur,
Directors Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Reilly.
Resolution No. 553-06.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land
Reutilization
Program
in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, City has. acquired Permanent Parcel No. 118-01-003, located
at Hough Avenue under the Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1639-06
passed November 20, 2006, authorized the sale of the parcel for a
consideration established by the
Board of Control at not less than the
Fair Market Value; and
Whereas, Emmanuel A.M.E. Zion
Church has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcel;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1639-06 passed November 20, 2006, by
the Cleveland City Council, the
Mayor is authorized to execute an
official deed for and on behalf of
the City of Cleveland with Emmanuel A.M.E. Zion Church for the
sale and development of Permanent
Parcel No. 118-01-003, as described in
the Ordinance in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.

The City Record
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Ciaccia, Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,
Acting Directors Thompson, Wilbur,
Directors Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Reilly.
Resolution No. 554-06.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 133-05-008, located
at 3605 East 75th Street under the
Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1688-06
passed November 20, 2006, authorized the sale of the parcel for a
consideration established by the
Board of Control at not less than the
Fair Market Value; and
Whereas, Slavic Village Development Corporation has proposed to
the City to purchase and develop the
parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1688-06 passed November 20, 2006, by
the Cleveland City Council, the
Mayor is authorized to execute an
official deed for and on behalf of
the City of Cleveland with Slavic
Village
Development
Corporation
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 133-05-008, as
described in the Ordinance in accordance with the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Ciaccia, Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,
Acting Directors Thompson, Wilbur,
Directors Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Reilly.
Resolution No. 555-06.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 118-09-001, located
at East 79th and Hough under the
Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1638-06
passed November 20, 2006, authorized the sale of the parcel for a
consideration established by the
Board of Control at not less than the
Fair Market Value; and
Whereas, Robert Earl Denson has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.

2336

December 13, 2006
1638-06 passed November 20, 2006, by
the Cleveland City Council, the
Mayor is authorized to execute an
official deed for and on behalf of
the City of Cleveland with Robert
Earl Denson for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 11809-001, as described in the Ordinance
in accordance with the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Ciaccia, Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,
Acting Directors Thompson, Wilbur,
Directors Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Reilly.
Resolution No. 556-06.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 103-23-067, located
at East 40th Street under the Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1763-06
passed November 20, 2006, authorized the sale of the parcel for a
consideration established by the
Board of Control at not less than the
Fair Market Value; and
Whereas, Church of God in Christ
has proposed to the City to purchase
and develop the parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1763-06 passed November 20, 2006, by
the Cleveland City Council, the
Mayor is authorized to execute an
official deed for and on behalf of
the City of Cleveland with Church
of God in Christ for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
No. 103-23-067, as described in the
Ordinance in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Ciaccia, Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,
Acting Directors Thompson, Wilbur,
Directors Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Reilly.
Resolution No. 557-06.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a

December 13, 2006
Land Reutilization Program in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 009-02-188, located
at West 23rd Street under the Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1636-06
passed November 20, 2006, authorized the sale of the parcel for a
consideration established by the
Board of Control at not less than the
Fair Market Value; and
Whereas, Valerie D. Frederecks
and Bradley D. Frederecks have proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1636-06 passed November 20, 2006, by
the Cleveland City Council, the
Mayor is authorized to execute an
official deed for and on behalf of
the City of Cleveland with Valerie
D. Frederecks and Bradley D. Frederecks for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 009-02-188,
as described in the Ordinance in
accordance with the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$420.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Ciaccia, Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,
Acting Directors Thompson, Wilbur,
Directors Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Reilly.
Resolution No. 558-06.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 110-13-016, located
at Arlington Avenue under the Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1727-06
passed November 20, 2006, authorized the sale of the parcel for a
consideration established by the
Board of Control at not less than the
Fair Market Value; and
Whereas, Karin K. Salman has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1727-06 passed November 20, 2006, by
the Cleveland City Council, the
Mayor is authorized to execute an
official deed for and on behalf of
the City of Cleveland with Karin K.
Salman for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 11013-016, as described in the Ordinance
in accordance with the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.

The City Record

71

Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$16,500, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Ciaccia, Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,
Acting Directors Thompson, Wilbur,
Directors Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Reilly.

ber 11, 2006, the following appeals
were heard by the Board:

JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

Calendar No. 06-240: 12210 Mayfield
Road
Grace Corbo appealed to erect a
1,853 square foot addition to a twostory mixed use building in a General Retail Business District.

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 26, 2006
No appeals will be heard on
December 26, 2006.
The next scheduled meeting for
the Board of Zoning Appeals will
be on Tuesday, January 2, 2007.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 06-239: 13448 Puritas
Avenue
The Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority appealed to erect
three duplex housing units in an
existing legal nonconforming residential development, situated on
acreage in an A1 One-Family District; subject to conditions.

Calendar No. 06-244: 3545 Ridge Road
Chin and Arnold Properties, LLC
appealed to install a double faced
pole sign identifying a shopping
center and three tenants in a SemiIndustry District.
Calendar No. 06-192: 3708 Whitman
Avenue
Junaid Hasan appealed to change
a dwelling and store to a one family dwelling in a Two-Family District.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 06-236: 12912 Hoy Avenue
Crystal Poole appealed to use as
a Type A day care an existing onefamily dwelling located in an A1
One-Family District.
Calendar No. 06-237: 3238 West 48th
Street
Maria Ortuzar appealed to park a
10' x 18' commercial truck on a corner parcel located in a B1 Local
Retail Business District.
The following appeal was Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 06-235: 3470 East 93rd
Street
St. Catherine Avenue Family Dollar, Ltd. appealed to construct a
retail store building in split zoning
between General Retail Business
and Two-Family Districts.
The following
missed:

appeal

was

Dis-

None.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 06-214: 2133 Murray
Hill Road postponed to January
29, 2007.
Calendar No. 06-245: 3881 West 134th
Street postponed to January 16,
2007.

MONDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2006

In Executive Session on December
11, 2006, the following appeals heard
by the Board on December 4, 2006
were adopted and approved.

At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, Decem-

The following appeals were Approved:

2337

The City Record

72
Calendar No. 06-230: 4835 Broadview
Road
Villa Care Realty, owner, and
Scott Soeder, d.b.a. Home Team
Properties, prospective purchaser,
appealed to change from a nursing
home to commercial offices the use
of a two-story brick building in a
Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 06-231: 3420 Paris Avenue
Manuela Rex, owner, appealed to
install a 6' tall ornamental fence in
the front yard setback of a parcel
in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 06-232: 3141 Fulton
Road
Owen Rex appealed to install a 6'
tall ornamental fence in the front
yard setback of a parcel in TwoFamily District.
Calendar No. 06-233: 1844 West 25th
Street
TEG Properties, Inc., owner, and
John Stuchal, prospective tenant,
appealed to change a two-story
building from a store to a restaurant with 28 seats and a staff of 6
employees in a General Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 06-234: 1427 East 45th
Street
Urban Housing Ltd., CLV Lofts,
LLC and Doug Perkowski appealed
to convert a warehouse building to
a 20 unit apartment building in a
Semi-Industry District.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 06-211: 11805 Forest
Avenue
Audrey Render appealed to expand the use of a one family
dwelling by adding a Type A day
care in a Two-Family District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the append-

ed schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised, the following notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code,
each
prime
bidder,
each
minority business enterprise (“MBE”)
and each female business enterprise (“FBE”) must be certified
before doing business with the City.
Therefore, any prime contractor
wishing to receive credit for using
an MBE or FBE should ensure that
applications for certification as to
MBE or FBE status compliance
with the Code, affirmative action in
employment and, if applicable, joint
venture status, are submitted to the
Office
of
Equal
Opportunity
(“OEO”) prior to the date of bid
opening or submission of proposals
or as specified by the Director.
Failure to comply with the business
enterprise code or with representations made on these forms may
result in cancellation of the contract or other civil or criminal
penalties.”
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 22, 2006
Moving Services, for the Various
Divisions of City Government,
Department of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1622-06,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, October 23, 2006.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 2006 AT
1:30 P.M., CITY HALL, DIVISION
OF PURCHASES & SUPPLIES,
ROOM, 128, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Purchase of Generator Maintenance
and Repair, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 50106, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, July 13, 2006.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING THURSDAY, DECEMBER 14, 2006 AT
10:00 A.M., DIVISION OF MOTOR
VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, 4150
EAST 49TH STREET, BUILDING
#1, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
Purchase of Material, Labor and
Installation of Wndow Guards, for
the Division of Police, Department
of Public Safety, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1887-05, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, December 5, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,

2338

December 13, 2006
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 14, 2006
AT 10:00 A.M., SUPPLY UNIT, 2200
WEST 3RD STREET, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44113.
December 6, 2006 and December 13, 2006
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 29, 2006
SANS (Storage Area Network) –
(Re-Bid), for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1019-05, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, July 13,
2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 2006 AT
10:00 A.M., PENTON MEDIA BUILDING, 1300 EAST 9TH STREET,
4TH FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Estimated Quantity of One (1) Fire
Aerial Ladder, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 76205, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, May 9, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21, 2006 AT 1:00
P.M., DIVISION OF MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE BUILDING
#1, 4150 EAST 49TH STREET,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
Service Fittings, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section
129.25 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21, 2006 AT
10:30 A.M., DIVISION OF WATER
DISTRIBUTION
AND
MAINTENANCE PIPE REPAIR CONFERENCE ROOM, 4600 HARVARD
AVENUE, NEWBURGH HEIGHTS,
OHIO 44105.
December 6, 2006 and December 13, 2006
FRIDAY, JANUARY 5, 2007
South HVAC Upgrade, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of
Port Control, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 359-05, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, May 2, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND/OR MONEY ORDER PAYABLE TO THE CITY OF CLEVELAND.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 19, 2006
AT 10:00 A.M., CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
ENGINEERING BUILDING 6C-24C,
CONFERENCE ROOM, 19501 FIVE
POINTS ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44135.
December 6, 2006 and December 13, 2006

December 13, 2006
ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 2056-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
Liquor License of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 2123 East 2nd
Street, and repealing Resolution No.
1770-06, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 2123
East 2nd Street by Resolution No.
1770-06 adopted by the Council on
October 23, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of liquor license and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to Richard
Giamori, DBA Tavern on 2nd Street,
2123 East 2nd Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, Permanent Number 3163030 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1770-06, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted December 4, 2006.
Effective December 8, 2006.

Res. No. 2057-06.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at
3230 East 93rd Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C2 Liquor Permit at Semaan Marketing, Inc., 3230 East 93rd Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 7974550; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and

The City Record
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at Semaan Marketing,
Inc., 3230 East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number
7974550; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted December 4, 2006.
Effective December 8, 2006.

Res. No. 2058-06.
By Council Member Turner.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
4344 Lee Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Mamas Lee
Road Beverage, Inc., 4344 Lee Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44128, Permanent
Number 5467713; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local

2339

73
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Mamas Lee Road
Beverage, Inc., 4344 Lee Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44128, Permanent Number
5467713; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted December 4, 2006.
Effective December 8, 2006.

Ord. No. 1461-06.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 70th Street,
Zoeter and Lawnview Avenues to
New Mount Zion Baptist Church.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement

74
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-09-074 as
more fully described below, to New
Mount Zion Baptist Church.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-09-074
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being the Easterly 30 feet from front to rear of
Sublot No. 30 in Zoeter and Decker’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 341, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 30 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 30 feet front on
the Northerly side of Zoeter Avenue,
N.E., and extending back of equal
width 164 9/12 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-09-110 as
more fully described below to New
Mount Zion Baptist Church.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-09-110
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublots Nos. 27, 28 and 29 in Zoeter
and Decker’s Subdivision of a part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 341, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 30
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being more particularly described as
follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the North line of Zoeter Avenue
with the East line of Russell Avenue, now East 70th Street; thence
Easterly along the North line of
Zoeter Avenue, 96 feet and 9 inches;
thence Northerly parallel with the
East line of Russell Avenue, now

The City Record
East 70th Street, 33 feet; thence
Westerly parallel with the North
line of Zoeter Avenue, 96 feet and 9
inches to the East line of Russell
Avenue, now East 70th Street, and
thence Southerly along the East line
of Russell Avenue, now East 70th
Street, 33 feet to the place of beginning, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-13-014 as
more fully described below, to New
Mount Zion Baptist Church.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-13-014
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
57 in Holden and Halle’s Allotment
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 341, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps,
Page
14
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Southerly side of Lawnview N.E.
(formerly
Astor
Avenue)
and
extending back of equal width 128
feet deep as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-13-015 as
more fully described, to New Mount
Zion Baptist Church.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-13-015
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
58 in Holden and Halle’s Allotment
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 341 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps,
Page
14
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Southerly side of Astor Avenue
(now known as Lawnview Avenue
N.E.) and extending back of equal
width 128 feet deep as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-13-101 as
more fully described below, to New
Mount Zion Baptist Church.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

2340

December 13, 2006
P. P. No. 106-13-101
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being the
Northerly 74 feet of Sublot No. 62 in
Holden and Halle Allotment of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 341 as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 7 of Maps, Page 14
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 74 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 71st Street, and extending back of equal width 32 feet 10
inches along the Southerly side of
Lawnview Avenue, N.E., as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-13-023 as
more fully described below, to New
Mount Zion Baptist Church.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-13-023
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
31 IN Holden and Halle Allotment of
a part of the Rufus Dunham Farms
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 341 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps,
Page
14
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Linwood Avenue, N.E. and extending back of
equal width 128 feet as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 13. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 14. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 15. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.

December 13, 2006
Section 16. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed December 4, 2006.
Effective December 8, 2006.

Ord. No. 1733-06.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 84th Street to
Lillian Roberts.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 107-09-182, as
more fully described below, to Lillian Roberts.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 107-09-182
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being Sublot
No. 39 in A. Poelking’s Subdivision
of part of Original 100 Acre Lots
Nos. 375 and 383, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 23, Page 11
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 40 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 84th Street, and extending back of equal width 104.55 feet,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.

The City Record
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed December 4, 2006.
Effective December 8, 2006.

Ord. No. 1761-A-06 (As a substitute
for Ord. No. 1761-06).
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney.
An
ordinance
authorizing
the
Director of Port Control to limit the
number of taxi cabs at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport by
one of the following options: 1)
issue permits for a fee to taxi cab
companies to operate outbound services from the airport; or 2) enter
into an agreement with a third-party
taxi management concessionaire to
manage outbound services and issue
permits at the airport; or 3) enter
into a concession agreement for the
operation of an exclusive outbound
taxicab concession at the Airport;
and authorizing one or more contracts with one or more advertising
firms for marketing and promotional services.
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Director of Port
Control (“Director”) is authorized to
limit the number of taxi cabs at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport (“Airport”) by one of the following options: 1) issue permits for
a fee to taxi cab companies to operate outbound services from the airport; or 2) enter into an agreement
with a third-party taxi management
concessionaire to manage outbound
services and issue permits at the
airport; or 3) enter into a concession
agreement for the operation of an
exclusive outbound taxicab concession at the Airport.
Section 2. The Director is authorized as an option to issue permits
for a fee to taxi cab companies to
operate outbound services from the

2341

75
Airport. These permits are required
in addition to any requirements in
Chapter 443 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976. The
Director is authorized to promulgate
rules and regulations governing the
issuance of the permits, including
the number of permits to be issued.
The fee for this permit shall be set
by the Board of Control.
Section 3. The Director is authorized as an option to enter into an
agreement with a third-party taxi
management concessionaire to manage outbound services and issue
permits at the Airport. The fee for
these permits shall be set by the
Board of Control. The cost for such
services shall be paid for from fund
numbers
60-001,
60-0104,
60-0105,
and/or 60-0106. The agreement shall
be for a period not to exceed five
years, with one option to renew for
a period up to five years, exercisable by the Director after legislative
approval of Council. The agreement
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law and approved by the Director,
and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 4. That the Director is
authorized as an option to employ
by a concession agreement a taxi
company in order to provide services
necessary
to
operate
an
exclusive outbound taxicab concession at the Airport. The selection
of services shall be made by the
Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director from a list of
qualified providers available for
such employment as may be determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director for the purpose of compiling such a list. The
compensation to be paid for such
services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The agreement
shall be for a period not to exceed
five years, with one option to
renew for a period up to five years,
exercisable by the Director after
legislative
approval
of
Council.
The agreement shall be prepared
by
the
Director
of
Law
and
approved by the Director.
Section 5. That the Director is
authorized to enter into one or more
agreements with one or more advertising firms for marketing and promotional services for, but not limited to, the advertising to be placed
on taxi vehicles operating under an
Advertising Agreement. The Advertising Agreement shall provide that
all revenues from the marketing,
promotion, or advertising shall be
paid directly to the City.
Section 6. That the Director is
authorized to establish Airport fare
rates for taxi vehicles for the purpose
of
transporting
passengers
from the Airport to another location.
Any agreements authorized by this
ordinance shall comply with the
City of Cleveland’s MBE/FBE requirements and all relevant Federal
laws, rules, and requirements, including DBE requirements.
Section 7. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed December 4, 2006.
Effective January 13, 2007.

76
Ord. No. 1847-06.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
Circadian Knight Corp. d/b/a Top
Gun for the lease of office space at
Burke Lakefront Airport for flight
training and related services, for the
Department of Port Control, for a
period of two years, with one option
to renew for an additional two-year
period.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a Lease Agreement (“Lease”)
with Circadian Knight Corp. d/b/a
Top Gun (“Lessee”) for use and
occupancy
of
approximately
205
square feet of office space located
in Room 162 of the terminal building at Burke Lakefront Airport
(“Leased Premises”) for flight training and related services. The term
of the Lease shall be for a two year
period, commencing on the effective
date of the Lease, with one option
to renew for an additional two year
period, exercisable by the Director
of Port Control. For use of the
Leased Premises, Lessee shall pay
the City an annual rate of Two
Thousand Five Hundred Sixty-Two
Dollars and Fifty Cents ($2,562.50)
which is equal to $12.50 per square
foot. Such rent shall be paid in
monthly installments due on the
first day of each month during the
term of the Lease.
Section 2. That the Lease authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed December 4, 2006.
Effective December 8, 2006.

Ord. No. 1848-06.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a license agreement with
Norfolk Southern Railway Company
to install, construct, operate, maintain, and remove a sewer line on
Norfolk Southern property located at
Milepost CD-192.23.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a license agreement with Norfolk Southern Railway Company
(“Norfolk Southern”) whereby Norfolk Southern is granting the City
the right to use and occupy Norfolk
Southern property for the installation, construction, operation, maintenance, and removal of a sewer line
on Norfolk Southern property located at Milepost CD-192.33 in exchange
for the payment of a one-time fee of
$16,750.00.
Section 2. That the term of the
license agreement shall be perpetual.
Section 3. That the license agreement shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 4. That the Director of
Port Control and the Director of
Law, and other appropriate City officials, are authorized to execute such
other documents and certificates,
and take such other action as may
be necessary or appropriate to effect
the license agreement authorized by
this ordinance.
Section 5. That the license fee is
payable from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001,
60 SF 104, 60 SF 105, 60 SF 106, passenger facility charges, and the
fund or funds to which are credited
the proceeds from the sale of any
airport
revenue
bonds,
federal
grants,
state
grants,
and
local
grants
issued
for
this
purpose,
Request No. 158670.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed December 4, 2006.
Effective December 8, 2006.

Ord. No. 1849-06.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more agreements
with local, state, and federal agencies and non-profit organizations for
the use of airport space for promotional use and to accept in-kind services, promotions, or comparable
space promoting Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport and Burke
Lakefront
Airport
and
special
events to be held at either or both
airports for a period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with
local, state, and federal agencies
and non-profit organizations for
the use of airport space to promote
and highlight the civic and cultural contributions to the Greater

2342

December 13, 2006
Cleveland Area by local nonprofit
organizations, for a period of two
years.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to accept
in-kind services, promotions, or comparable advertisement space with
local, state, and federal agencies
and non-profit organizations for the
purpose
of
promoting
Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport and
Burke Lakefront Airport and special
airport events to be held at either
or both airports. The Board of Control shall determine that the extent
of the use of space and the services
and promotions offered in exchange
are of comparable value.
Section 3. That the agreement or
agreements shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed December 4, 2006.
Effective December 8, 2006.

Ord. No. 1852-06.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
lease to the International Women’s
Air and Space Museum, Inc. certain
space at Burke Lakefront Airport,
for a term not to exceed seven
years.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain property known as
Burke Lakefront Airport, certain
portions of which are not needed for
public use for the next seven years;
and
Whereas, the International Women’s
Air and Space Museum, Inc. has proposed to lease certain portions of
such property from the City for the
purpose of operating an International Women’s Air and Space Museum; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to Chapters 181
and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of
Port Control is authorized to lease
Rooms 165 and 169, totaling 1,724
square feet of office space at Burke
Lakefront Airport, to the International Women’s Air and Space Museum, Inc. to operate an International
Women’s Air and Space Museum in
space which has been determined to
be not needed for public use for the
term of the lease.
Section 2. That the term of the
lease authorized shall not exceed
seven years. International Women’s
Air and Space Museum shall also

December 13, 2006
be granted the right to use certain
wall and floor space free of charge
for exhibits in the terminal at
Burke Lakefront Airport provided
that this exhibit space may be terminated prior to the expiration of
the Lease by the Director of Port
Control upon thirty days written
notice.
Section 3. That the property described in this ordinance shall be
leased at the following amounts during the term of the lease:
Years 1 and 2 — $10.25 per square
foot,
for
an
annual
total
of
$17,671.00;
Years 3 and 4 — $10.50 per square
foot,
for
an
annual
total
of
$18,102.00;
Years 5 and 6 — $10.75 per square
foot,
for
an
annual
total
of
$18,533.00; and
Year 7 — $11.00 per square foot,
for an annual total of $18,964.00.
Section 4. That the lease may
authorize
the
lessee
to
make
improvements to the leased premises
subject to the approval of appropriate City agencies and officials.
Section 5. That the lease agreement shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That the Directors of
Port Control and Law, and other
appropriate City officials, are authorized to execute other documents
and certificates, and take other
actions as may be necessary or
appropriate
to
effect
the
lease
agreement authorized in this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed December 4, 2006.
Effective December 8, 2006.

Ord. No. 1877-06.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into one or more contracts without competitive bidding
with Medtronic Physio-Control for
the purchase of maintenance of
LifePak 12 defibrillators and LifePak 500 automatic external defibrillators, for the Division of Emergency Medical Service, Department
of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council has
determined that the within commodities are non-competitive and
cannot be secured from any source
other than Medtronic Physio-Control. Therefore the Director of Public Safety is authorized to make

The City Record
one or more written contracts with
Medtronic Physio-Control on the
basis of its proposal dated March
17, 2006, for the maintenance of
LifePak 12 defibrillators and LifePak 500 automatic external defibrillators for a one-year period, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Emergency Medical Service, Department
of Public Safety.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 01-600402661200, Request No. 163538.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed December 4, 2006.
Effective December 8, 2006.

Ord. No. 1884-06.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into one or
more contracts with various nonprofit agencies for the implementation of homeless assistance activities; and to enter into one or more
contracts with Cuyahoga County
for the operation of the Cleveland/Cuyahoga County Office of
Homeless Services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with various non-profit agencies for the implementation of homeless assistance activities.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with Cuyahoga County to
operate
the
Cleveland/Cuyahoga
County Office of Homeless Services.
Section 3. That the aggregate cost
of the contracts authorized shall not
exceed $1,735,010.00 and shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 19 SF 601 and
14 SF 032, Request No. 149542.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed December 4, 2006.
Effective December 8, 2006.

2343

77
Ord. No. 1892-06.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with The Greater Cleveland
Sports Commission to provide financial assistance to organize and
administer programs for marketing
the City of Cleveland as a venue for
sporting events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with The Greater Cleveland
Sports Commission to provide financial assistance to organize and
administer programs for marketing
the City of Cleveland as a venue for
sporting events.
Section 2. That the costs of the
grant shall not exceed an amount of
$75,000 and shall be paid from Fund
No. 17 SF 652, Request No. 103717.
Section 3. That the agreement and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed December 4, 2006.
Effective December 8, 2006.

Ord. No. 1952-06
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to enter into one or more contracts with Court Community Service for professional services necessary to place criminal defendants in
community service, and for placement in the Cleveland Work Crew
Program, both as referred by the
Court, each for a period of one year,
with a one year option to renew, for
the Cleveland Municipal Court.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with Court Community Service for
professional services necessary to
arrange community service for persons the Court refers for a period of
one year, commencing January 1,
2007, with one (1) option, exercis-

78
able by the Director of Finance, to
renew for an additional one-year
term, and cancelable on thirty days’
written notice by the director. The
cost of the contract shall not exceed
$221,500, and if the option is exercised, the cost for the optional year
shall not exceed $229,500.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with Court Community Service for
professional services necessary to
arrange community service for persons the Court refers in the Cleveland Work Crew Program for a period of one year, commencing January 1, 2007, with one (1) option,
exercisable
by
the
Director
of
Finance, to renew for an additional
one-year term, and cancelable on
thirty days’ written notice by the
director. The cost of the contract
shall not exceed $128,500.00, and if
the option is exercised, the cost for
the optional year shall not exceed
$133,500,00.
Section 3. The cost of the contracts shall be paid from the fund
or funds appropriated for this purpose in budget year 2007, Request
No. 149969.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed December 4, 2006.
Effective December 8, 2006.

Ord. No. 2059-06.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into contract with Iron Mountain
National Underground Storage for
professional records and information
management services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized to enter into
contract with Iron Mountain National Underground Storage for professional records and information management services, including document storage, document inventory
and document relocation, on the
basis of their proposal dated November 28, 2006.
Section 2. That the term of this
agreement begins as of October 1,
2006 and expires on September 30,
2007, with the option to renew for
four additional one (1) year terms,
exercisable by the Clerk of Council.
The cost of the initial term of the
contract shall not exceed $54,000 and
shall be paid from Fund No. 01 SF
001.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

The City Record
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed December 4, 2006.
Effective December 8, 2006.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Monday, December 11, 2006
9:00 a.m.
City Planning (Zoning) Committee:
Present:
Cimperman,
Chair;
Westbrook, Vice Chair; Dolan, Zone,
Reed. Authorized Absence: Conwell,
Lewis. Protempore: Britt.
9:00 a.m.
City Planning Committee, Legislation
Committee,
Community
and
Economic Development Committee
and Finance Committee: Present in
Planning: Cimperman, Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Dolan, Zone,
Reed. Authorized Absence: Conwell,
Lewis. Protempore: Britt.
Present in Legislation: Cleveland,
Chair; Dolan, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Reed, Lewis, White, Pierce
Scott.
Present in CDED: Pierce Scott,
Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair; Cimperman,
Cummins,
Coats,
Westbrook, Brady, Zone, Lewis.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Brady, Conwell, Britt, Pierce
Scott,
Zone,
Westbrook,
Coats,
White.
9:00 a.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Brady, Conwell, Britt,
Pierce
Scott,
Zone,
Westbrook,
Coats, White.
9:00 a.m.
Employment, Affirmative Action and
Training Committee and Finance
Committee: Present in Employment:
Lewis, Chair; Santiago, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Coats, Johnson, Conwell, Turner.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Brady, Conwell, Britt, Pierce
Scott,
Zone,
Westbrook,
Coats,
White.

December 13, 2006
catelli, Brady, Conwell, Britt, Pierce
Scott,
Zone,
Westbrook,
Coats,
White.
9:00 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee, City Planning Committee
and Finance Committee: Present in
Health: Britt, Chair; Cleveland, Vice
Chair; Kelley, Santiago, Conwell,
Westbrook, Reed.
Present in Planning: Cimperman,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Conwell, Lewis, Dolan, Zone, Reed.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Brady, Conwell, Britt, Pierce
Scott,
Zone,
Westbrook,
Coats,
White.
9:00 a.m.
Public Service Committee, City
Planning Committee and Finance
Committee: Present in Service: Brady,
Chair; Turner, Vice Chair; Cleveland, Polensek, Cummins, White,
Johnson, Reed, Santiago.
Present in Planning: Cimperman,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Conwell, Lewis, Dolan, Zone, Reed.
Present in Finance: Sweeney, Chair;
Cimperman, Vice Chair; Brancatelli,
Brady, Conwell, Britt, Pierce Scott,
Zone, Westbrook, Coats, White.
9:00 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee, City Planning
Committee and Finance Committee:
Present in CDED: Pierce Scott,
Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair; Cimperman,
Cummins,
Coats,
Westbrook, Brady, Zone, Lewis.
Present in Planning: Cimperman,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Conwell, Lewis, Dolan, Zone, Reed.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Brady, Conwell, Britt, Pierce
Scott,
Zone,
Westbrook,
Coats,
White.
9:00 a.m.
Public
Parks,
Property
and
Recreation Committee, City Planning Committee and Finance Committee: Present in Parks: Johnson,
Chair; White, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Turner, Cummins, Kelley,
Polensek.
Present in Planning: Cimperman,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Conwell, Lewis, Dolan, Zone, Reed.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Brady, Conwell, Britt, Pierce
Scott,
Zone,
Westbrook,
Coats,
White.

9:00 a.m.
9:00 a.m.
Public Utilities Committee, City
Planning Committee and Finance
Committee:
Present
in
Utilities:
Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice Chair; Cleveland, Polensek, Cummins, Dolan, Kelley, Westbrook, Santiago.
Present in Planning: Cimperman,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Conwell, Lewis, Dolan, Zone, Reed.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair; Bran-

2344

Legislation Committee and Finance
Committee: Present in Legislation:
Cleveland, Chair; Dolan, Vice Chair;
Cimperman, Reed, Lewis, White,
Pierce Scott.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Brady, Conwell, Britt, Pierce
Scott,
Zone,
Westbrook,
Coats,
White.

December 13, 2006

The City Record

79

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Family Caregiver Support Program — grant — Western Reserve Area Agency on Aging —
Community Development — contracts — implement the program
(O 1893-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332

Agreements
Case Western Reserve University — police services — within the City
(O 1878-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
Center St., 2019 — redevelopment agreement — The K & D Group
(O 2053-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
Cudell Improvement Incorporated — Winterfest Program — Urban Development
Action Grant Funds (O 2108-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2318
Mill Creek tributary — County improvement — Cuyahoga County Board of Health
(O 1962-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333
Norfolk Southern Railway Company — license agreement — sewer line —
Milepost CD-192.23 — Port Control (O 1848-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2342
Promotions, and public service announcements — exchange of, or acceptance of, services —
local, state, and federal agencies and non-profit organizations — Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport and special events
(O 1849-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2342
Taxi cabs — limit the number — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(O 1761-A-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2341
Ticketmaster — ticket equipment and services — Division of Convention Center and Stadium
(O 1961-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333

Banners
Friendship Baptist Church — public right-of-way — 3 banners (O 1856-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328

Blight
E. 105th St., 1570 — declare property — blighted premises — acquire and sell premises —
FEDCO Services, LLC (O 1278-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
E. 120th St., 3509 — declare — blighted premises — acquire and sell premises —
KidsHealth 2020 (O 1364-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324

Board of Education
Kosciuszko, Sowinski, Pulaski Aves. — Land Reutilization Program —
Cleveland Municipal School District (O 1811-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326
Public purpose improvement (real property) — tax exempt — blight study —
Compensation Agreement — Tax Increment Financing Agreement —
Veterans Administration Urban Redevelopment Tax Increment
Equivalent Fund (O 2006-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2323

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Arlington Avenue (Ward 15) — PPN 110-13-016 — Karin K. Salman per Ord. 1727-06 (BOC Res. 558-06) . . . . . . . . . 2337
East 40th Street (Ward 5) — PPN 103-23-067 — Church of God in Christ per Ord. 1763-06
(BOC Res. 556-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2336
East 75th Street (Ward 12) — PPN 133-05-008 — Slavic Village Development Corporation per
Ord. 1688-06 (BOC Res. 554-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2336
East 79th Street and Hough Avenue (Ward 7) — PPN 118-09-001 — Robert Earl Denson per Ord.
1638-06 (BOC Res. 555-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2336
Hough Avenue (Ward 7) — PPN 118-01-003 — Emmanuel A.M.E. Zion Church per Ord.
1639-06 (BOC Res. 553-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2336
West 23rd Street (Ward 15) — PPN 009-02-188 — Valerie D. Frederecks and Bradley D.
Frederecks per Ord. 1636-06 (BOC Res. 557-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2336

2345

The City Record

80

December 13, 2006

Board of Control — Finance Department
Human resources information systems — amend BOC Res. 134-03, 307-03
(BOC Res. 551-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2335

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Arlington Avenue (Ward 15) — PPN 110-13-016 — Karin K. Salman per Ord. 1727-06
(BOC Res. 558-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2337
East 40th Street (Ward 5) — PPN 103-23-067 — Church of God in Christ per Ord. 1763-06
(BOC Res. 556-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2336
East 75th Street (Ward 12) — PPN 133-05-008 — Slavic Village Development Corporation per
Ord. 1688-06 (BOC Res. 554-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2336
East 79th Street and Hough Avenue (Ward 7) — PPN 118-09-001 — Robert Earl Denson per Ord.
1638-06 (BOC Res. 555-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2336
Hough Avenue (Ward 7) — PPN 118-01-003 — Emmanuel A.M.E. Zion Church per Ord.
1639-06 (BOC Res. 553-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2336
West 23rd Street (Ward 15) — PPN 009-02-188 — Valerie D. Frederecks and Bradley D.
Frederecks per Ord. 1636-06 (BOC Res. 557-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2336

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 5)
East 40th Street (Ward 5) — PPN 103-23-067 — Church of God in Christ per Ord. 1763-06
(BOC Res. 556-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2336

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 7)
East 79th Street and Hough Avenue (Ward 7) — PPN 118-09-001 — Robert Earl Denson per Ord.
1638-06 (BOC Res. 555-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2336
Hough Avenue (Ward 7) — PPN 118-01-003 — Emmanuel A.M.E. Zion Church per Ord.
1639-06 (BOC Res. 553-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2336

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 12)
East 75th Street (Ward 12) — PPN 133-05-008 — Slavic Village Development Corporation per
Ord. 1688-06 (BOC Res. 554-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2336

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 15)
Arlington Avenue (Ward 15) — PPN 110-13-016 — Karin K. Salman per Ord. 1727-06
(BOC Res. 558-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2337
West 23rd Street (Ward 15) — PPN 009-02-188 — Valerie D. Frederecks and Bradley D.
Frederecks per Ord. 1636-06 (BOC Res. 557-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2336

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Human resources information systems — amend BOC Res. 134-03, 307-03 — Dept. of Finance
(BOC Res. 551-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2335

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Laboratory services for water quality analysis — consent to assignment Contract #65770
per BOC Res. 211-06 — Division of Water (BOC Res. 552-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2335

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Laboratory services for water quality analysis — consent to assignment Contract #65770
per BOC Res. 211-06 — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 552-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2335

Board of Control — Water Division
Laboratory services for water quality analysis — consent to assignment Contract #65770
per BOC Res. 211-06 — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 552-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2335

2346

December 13, 2006

The City Record

81

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Broadview Road, 4835, (Ward 16) – Villa Care Realty, owner and Scott Soeder, d.b.a. Home
Team Properties, prospective purchaser — appeal granted and adopted on 12/11/2006
(Cal. 06-230) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2338
East 45th Street, 1427, (Ward 13) – Urban Housing Ltd., CLV Lofts, LLC and Doug
Perkowski, owners — appeal granted and adopted on 12/11/2006 (Cal. 06-234) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2338
East 93rd Street, 3470, (Ward 5) – St. Catherine Avenue Family Dollar Ltd., owner and Jay
Romer — appeal withdrawn on 12/11/2006 (Cal. 06-235) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2337
Forest Avenue, 11805, (Ward 4) – Audrey Render, owner — appeal denied and adopted
on 12/11/2006 (Cal. 06-211) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2338
Fulton Avenue, 3141, (Ward 14) – Owen Rex, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 12/11/2006 (Cal. 06-232) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2338
Hoy Avenue, 12912, (Ward 2) – Crystal Poole, owner — appeal heard on 12/11/2006
(Cal. 06-236) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2337
Mayfiled Road, 12210, (Ward 6) – Grace Corbo, owner — appeal heard
on 12/11/2006 (Cal. 06-240) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2337
Murray Hill Road, 2133, (Ward 6) – Nella Gallito, owner — appeal postponed to 1/29/07 on
12/11/2006 (Cal. 06-214) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2337
Paris Avenue, 3420, (Ward 14) – Manuela Rex, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
12/11/2006 (Cal. 06-231) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2338
Puritas Avenue, 13448, (Ward 20) – The Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority, owner appeal heard on 12/11/2006 (Cal. 06-239) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2337
Ridge Road, 3545, (Ward 16) – Chin and Arnold Properties, LLC, owner — appeal heard on
12/11/2006 (Cal. 06-244) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2337
West 134th Street, 3881, (Ward 20) – Clyde Gazda, owner — appeal postponed to 1/16/07 on
12/11/2006 (Cal. 06-245) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2337
West 25th Street, 1844, (Ward 13) – TEG Enterprises, Inc., owner and John Stuchal,
prospective tenant — appeal granted and adopted on 12/11/2006 (Cal. 06-233) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2338
West 48th Street, 3238, (Ward 14) – Maria Ortuzar, owner — appeal heard
on 12/11/2006 (Cal. 06-237) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2337
Whitman Avenue, 3708, (Ward 13) – Junaid Hasan, owner appeal heard
on 12/11/2006 (Cal. 06-192) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2337

Bonds
Bridges and Roadways Improvement Bonds — $17,935,000 — issuance and sale of bonds
(O 2070-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270
Cemeteries Improvement Bonds — $515,000 — issuance and sale of bonds
(O 2075-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2305
Final Judgment Bonds — $2,050,000 — issuance and sale of bonds (O 2074-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2298
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds — $2,825,000 — issuance and sale of bonds
(O 2073-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2291
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds — $16,350,000 — issuance and sale of bonds
(O 2071-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2277
Revitalization Improvement Bonds — $3,075,000 — issuance and sale of bonds
(O 2072-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2284

Bridges
Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency — apply — Bridge projects (various)
(O 1629-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325
Cornell Rd. Bridge, Woodland Ave./Kinsman Rd., E. 30th St., & Bellaire Rd.
Rehabilitation Phase II Projects — state funding — District One Public
Works Integrating Committee (O 1583-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325
East 34th Street Bridge — climbing system — Director of Transportation of the State of
Ohio — consent of the City of Cleveland (O 1860-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328
Triskett Rd. — resurfacing — amend Ord. No. 1228-98 (O 1631-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326

Burke Lakefront Airport
Circadian Knight Corp. d/b/a Top Gun — Lease Agreement — office space
(O 1847-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2342
International Women’s Air and Space Museum, Inc. — lease (O 1852-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2342
Promotions, and public service announcements — exchange of, or acceptance of, services —
agreements — local, state, and federal agencies and non-profit organizations —
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport and special
events (O 1849-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2342

2347

The City Record

82

December 13, 2006

Case Western Reserve University
Police services — within the City — agreement (O 1878-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332

Cemeteries
Cemeteries Improvement Bonds — $515,000 — issuance and sale of bonds
(O 2075-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2305

City Council
Ardence, Inc. — support and maintenance of software — contract (O 2093-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2318
Iron Mountain National Underground Storage — contract (O 2059-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2344

City of Cleveland Bids
Fire aerial ladder — Department of Public Service — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance —
per Ord. 762-05 — bid due December 29, 2006 (advertised 12/6/2006 and 12/13/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2338
Generator maintenance and repair — Department of Public Service — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 501-06 — bid due December 22, 2006 (advertised 12/6/2006
and 12/13/2006). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2338
Moving services — Department of Finance — per Ord. 1622-06 — bid due December 22, 2006
(advertised 12/6/2006 and 12/13/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2338
SANS (Storage Area Network) (re-bid) — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water —
per Ord. 1019-05 — bid due December 29, 2006 (advertised 12/6/2006 and 12/13/2006). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2338
Service fittings — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water per C.O. Sec. 129.25 — bid due December 29, 2006 (advertised 12/6/2006 and 12/13/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2338
South HVAC upgrade — Department of Port Control — Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport — per Ord. 359-05 — bid due January 5, 2007 (advertised 12/6/2006
and 12/13/2006). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2338
Window guards installation — Department of Public Safety — Division of Police — per Ord.
1887-05 — bid due December 22, 2006 (advertised 12/6/2006 and 12/13/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2338

City Planning Commission
Deise Ave., Maxwell Ave., Aspinwall Ave., E. 140th St. (parcels bounded by) —
Change the Use Districts — Residence Industry (O 1549-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
E. 150th St. (east) — north of St. Clair Ave. — change the Use and Area Districts —
Multi-Family Residential District and a ‘C’ Area District (O 1897-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
Euclid Ave. (north), east of Avalon Rd. — change the Use, Area and Height District —
Multi-Family Residential District, a ‘D’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District
(O 1973-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2335
Jennings Rd. — north of Beltline St., south of I-71 — change zoning of land — Unrestricted
Industry District, an ‘A’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District
(O 1898-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
Justus Cozad House, The — designate — Cleveland Landmark (O.1817-06)
Shawnee Ave. property (south side near intersection of Neff Rd. & E. 185th St.) — change
the zoning — Family Residential District (O 1765-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
St. Catherine Ave. (south) — change the Use, Area and Height District — General Retail
Business District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District (O 1896-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
University Circle Design District (UCDD) — establish (O 1895-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
W. 65th St. & Storer Ave. (northwest corner) — change the Use District — Shopping Center
District (O 1885-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334

Clerk of Council
Ardence, Inc. — support and maintenance of software — contract (O 2093-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2318
Iron Mountain National Underground Storage — contract (O 2059-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2344

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Promotions, and public service announcements — exchange of, or acceptance of, services —
agreements — local, state, and federal agencies and non-profit organizations —
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport and special
events (O 1849-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2342
Taxi cabs — limit the number (O 1761-A-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2341

2348

December 13, 2006

The City Record

83

Cleveland Municipal Court
Community service — place criminal defendants — Cleveland Work Crew Program — contracts
with Court Community Service (O 1952-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2343
Drug and alcohol testing services — contract — Cuyahoga County Corrections Planning Board —
Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas Adult Probation Department Drug Testing
Laboratory (O 2076-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2312

Cleveland Public Power
Computer network equipment — purchase (O 2079-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2312
Promotional materials — purchase (O 2080-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2312

Cleveland Public Schools
Daniel Morgan Elementary School (new construction) — E. 88th & E. 92nd Sts., &
Wade Park Ave. to Morris Ct. (between) — sell City-owned property
(O 1689-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326
Kosciuszko, Sowinski, Pulaski Aves. — Land Reutilization Program
(O 1811-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326

Codified Ordinances
Cleveland Cultural Gardens — amend Sec. 559.02 — new Sects. 559.235 through 559.243
(O 1062-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
Correction Division — transfer from Public Health Dept. to the Public Safety Dept. — new
Sects. 135.57, 135.58, 135.59, 135.60, 135.61, 135.62, & 135.63 — amend Sects.
135.01 & 141.02 — repeal Sects. 141.06, 141.07, 141.071, 141.072, 141.08, 141.081,
& 141.09 (O 1871-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2329
Designation of landmarks and landmarks districts — amend Sec. 161.04
(O 1281-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
Expense fund for the Chief of Police — amend Sec. 135.091 (O 1879-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
Public improvement projects — contracts — emergency services and acquire property rights —
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority rights-of-way — new Section 185.191
(O 2082-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2313
Stables, poultry enclosures and other enclosures, restrictions on location — amend Sec.
347.02 (O 1470-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325
Taxicabs — new Sec. 443.37 — amend Sects. 443.03, 443.06, & 443.26 — repeal Sec. 443.07
(O 1820-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2327
University Circle Design District — creation — new Sec. 341.221 — repeal Sec. 341.06 —
performance bond for building alterations (O 1766-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326
Vandalism of vacant buildings and structures — amend Sec. 623.08
(O 1965-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333

Collinwood Village Development Corporation
Tiverton Rd., — Land Reutilization Program — Collinwood and Nottingham
Villages Development Corporation (O 2090-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2315

Communications
Bridges and Roadways Improvement Bonds Fiscal Officers Certificate — File
(F 2070-06-A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Cemeteries Improvement Bonds Fiscal Officers Certificate — File
(F 2075-06-A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Final Judgement Improvement Bonds Fiscal Officers Certificate — File
(F 2074-06-A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds Fiscal Officers Certificate — File
(F 2073-06-A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds Fiscal Officers Certificate — File
(F 2071-06-A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Revitalization Improvement Bonds Fiscal Officers Certificate — File
(F 2072-06-A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269

2349

The City Record

84

December 13, 2006

Community Development
Center St., 2019 — redevelopment agreement — The K & D Group (O 2053-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
Consortium for Community/Economic Development — Housing Community
Services Program — Ward 7 NEF (O 2091-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2316
E. 105th St., 1570 — declare property — blighted premises — acquire and sell premises —
FEDCO Services, LLC (O 1278-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
E. 120th St., 3509 — declare — blighted premises — acquire and sell premises —
KidsHealth 2020 (O 1364-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
E. 60th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Eric Payne (O 1889-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
E. 60th St. — Land Reutilization Program — William Ladd and Noami R. Franklin Ladd
(O 1888-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
E. 66th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Viola M. Super and Lucius C. Oldham, Jr.
(O 1890-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
E. 70th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Lawrence Calloway (O 1810-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326
E. 70th St., Zoeter & Lawnview Aves. — Land Reutilization Program — New Mount
Zion Baptist Church (O 1461-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2339
E. 84th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Lillian Roberts (O 1733-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2341
Family Caregiver Support Program — grant — Western Reserve Area Agency on
Aging — Community Development — contracts — implement the program
(O 1893-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
Homeless assistance activities — contracts — non-profit agencies — Cuyahoga County —
Cleveland/Cuyahoga County Office of Homeless Services (O 1884-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2343
Kinsman Rd. & E. 117th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Bethel Church of Christ
(Holiness) USA (O 2089-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2315
Kosciuszko, Sowinski, Pulaski Aves. — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland Municipal
School District (O 1811-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326
Public Square, 140 & Ontario St., 2000 — Park Building — development agreement — Howells
and Howells Enterprises, LLC (O 1883-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
Scranton Rd., 2065 — residential condominium units, green space, and parking — development
agreement — J. Christopher Enterprises, Inc. (O 1882-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
System Property Development Company, Inc. — buy City-owned property —
(east corner) Huron Rd. & E. 4th St. — payment — System Parking
Development Company, Inc. (O 1577-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325
Tiverton Rd., — Land Reutilization Program — Collinwood and Nottingham
Villages Development Corporation (O 2090-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2315
Valley View Hope VI Development Project Phase I — contract — Valleyview Phase I, L.P. —
amend Ord. 1472-06 (O 2087-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2316
Woolen Mills Project — grant — U. S. Environmental Protection Agency —
Morgana Avenue aka 6118 Broadway Ave. — environmental cleanup —
URS Corporation — contracts (O 1881-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332

Concession Agreements
Collinwood Athletic Complex — food and beverage concession (O 1684-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326
Taxi cabs — limit the number — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(O 1761-A-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2341

Condolences
Brentar, Jerome A. (R 2111-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Brentar, Jerry (R 2117-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Contorno, Donna (R 2118-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Fabrizi, Frank (R 2120-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Gray, Harry (R 2113-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Johnson Couts, Edythe Gwendolyn (R 2116-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Kemer, Tom (R 2115-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Knaus, Andrew (R 2119-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Smith, Robert (R 2114-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Vargo, Dr. Edward G. (R 2112-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269

Congratulations
Bridge Brigade (R 2128-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270
D’Emilia, Alfonso (R 2124-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270
Hawk, Sr. Donna (R 2129-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270
Katzel, Rhoda (R 2123-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270
Kole, Peter C. (R 2125-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270

2350

December 13, 2006

The City Record

85

Latina, Lanee (R 2122-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270
Russ, Dick (R 2126-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270
Skipper Ray, Della (R 2127-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270
Smith, Troy (R 2121-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270

Contracts
Ardence, Inc. — support and maintenance of software — Clerk of Council
(O 2093-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2318
Bessemer Avenue Extension Phase II project — final engineering services and Stage
3 services — Arcadis G & M of Ohio, Inc., formerly known as Arcadis FPS, Inc. —
Contract No. 64009 (O 1855-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328
City Year — community service work — Parks, Recreation and Properties
(O 1880-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
Community service — place criminal defendants — Cleveland Work Crew Program —
Court Community Service (O 1952-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2343
Drug and alcohol testing services — Cuyahoga County Corrections Planning Board —
Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas Adult Probation Department
Drug Testing Laboratory (O 2076-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2312
Family Caregiver Support Program — grant — Western Reserve Area Agency on Aging —
Community Development — implement the program (O 1893-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
Homeless assistance activities — non-profit agencies — Cuyahoga County —
Cleveland/Cuyahoga County Office of Homeless Services
(O 1884-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2343
Iron Mountain National Underground Storage — Clerk of Council
(O 2059-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2344
iTRACS — provide and install new and upgraded software — Public Utilities
(O 2077-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2312
LifePak 12 defibrillators & LifePak 500 automatic external defibrillators — maintenance
- Medtronic Physio-Control (O 1877-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2343
TeleAtlas — GIS-related street centerline data subscription — Public Utilities
(O 2078-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2312
Valley View Hope VI Development Project Phase I — Valleyview Phase I, L.P. — amend Ord.
1472-06 (O 2087-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2316
WECO Fund, Inc. — funds to be lent — small businesses — located on Public Square to E.
30th St. (O 2086-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2316
Woolen Mills Project — grant — U. S. Environmental Protection Agency — Morgana Avenue aka
6118 Broadway Ave. — environmental cleanup — URS Corporation
(O 1881-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332

Convention Center
Ticketmaster — agreement — ticket equipment and services — Division of Convention Center
and Stadium (O 1961-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333

Correction Division
Transfer from Public Health Dept. to the Public Safety Dept. — new Sects. 135.57, 135.58,
135.59, 135.60, 135.61, 135.62, & 135.63 — amend Sects. 135.01 & 141.02 —
repeal Sects. 141.06, 141.07, 141.071, 141.072, 141.08, 141.081,
& 141.09 (O 1871-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2329
Cranwood Pkwy., 19200 — - lease property — M.B.D. Realty, LLC. — store and maintain
vehicles (O 2009-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333

Cudell Improvement
Winterfest Program — Urban Development Action Grant Funds — Cudell Improvement Incorporated —
agreement (O 2108-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2318

Cuyahoga County
Drug and alcohol testing services — contract — Cuyahoga County Corrections Planning Board —
Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas Adult Probation Department Drug Testing
Laboratory (O 2076-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2312
Homeless assistance activities — contracts — non-profit agencies — Cuyahoga County —
Cleveland/Cuyahoga County Office of Homeless Services (O 1884-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2343
Mill Creek tributary — County improvement — agreement — Cuyahoga County Board of Health
(O 1962-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333

2351

The City Record

86

December 13, 2006

Economic Development Department
Citywide VOIP communication system — extend — relocate — Downtown One Stop Center — 1020
Bolivar (O 2051-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
Cudell Improvement Incorporated — agreement — Winterfest Program — Urban Development Action
Grant Funds (O 2108-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2318
Economic Development Initiative Grant and Section 108 Funds — expend — Empowerment Zone
Business Opportunity Program — amend Ord. 257-97 (O 2007-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333
Greater Cleveland Sports Commission, The — grant agreement — marketing the City of
Cleveland (O 1892-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2343
PROES — Building HOPE Program — grant — LNE & Associates, LLC — Economic Development
(O 2052-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
Public purpose improvement (real property) — tax exempt — blight study Compensation Agreement — Tax Increment Financing Agreement — Veterans Administration
Urban Redevelopment Tax Increment Equivalent Fund (O 2006-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2323
WECO Fund, Inc. — contracts — funds to be lent — small businesses — located on
Public Square to E. 30th St. (O 2086-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2316

Emergency Medical Service Division
LifePak 12 defibrillators & LifePak 500 automatic external defibrillators — maintenance
- Medtronic Physio-Control — contracts (O 1877-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2343

Empowerment Zone
Economic Development Initiative Grant and Section 108 Funds — expend — Empowerment Zone
Business Opportunity Program — amend Ord. 257-97 (O 2007-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333

Environmental Protection Agency
Woolen Mills Project — grant — U. S. Environmental Protection Agency — Morgana Avenue aka
6118 Broadway Ave. — environmental cleanup — URS Corporation — contracts
(O 1881-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332

Euclid Corridor Transportation Project
E. 115th St. & Euclid Ave. — acquisition of certain easement interests — eliminate poles —
Euclid Corridor Transportation Project (O 1446-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
WECO Fund, Inc. — contracts — funds to be lent — small businesses — located on
Public Square to E. 30th St. (O 2086-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2316

Finance Department
Bridges and Roadways Improvement Bonds — $17,935,000 — issuance and sale of bonds
(O 2070-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270
Bridges and Roadways Improvement Bonds Fiscal Officers Certificate — File (F 2070-06-A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Cemeteries Improvement Bonds — $515,000 — issuance and sale of bonds (O 2075-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2305
Cemeteries Improvement Bonds Fiscal Officers Certificate — File (F 2075-06-A). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Community service — place criminal defendants — Cleveland Work Crew Program — contracts
with Court Community Service (O 1952-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2343
Drug and alcohol testing services — contract — Cuyahoga County Corrections Planning Board —
Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas Adult Probation Department Drug Testing
Laboratory (O 2076-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2312
Final Judgement Improvement Bonds Fiscal Officers Certificate — File (F 2074-06-A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Final Judgment Bonds — $2,050,000 — issuance and sale of bonds (O 2074-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2298
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds — $2,825,000 — issuance and sale of bonds
(O 2073-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2291
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds Fiscal Officers Certificate — File
(F 2073-06-A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds — $16,350,000 — issuance and sale of bonds
(O 2071-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2277
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds Fiscal Officers Certificate — File (F 2071-06-A). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Revitalization Improvement Bonds — $3,075,000 — issuance and sale of bonds (O 2072-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2284
Revitalization Improvement Bonds Fiscal Officers Certificate — File (F 2072-06-A). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Urban Redevelopment Tax Increment Equivalent Fund — establish — Declaring certain
improvements — public purpose — collection of service payments (O 2088-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2317

2352

December 13, 2006

The City Record

87

Flats District
Flats East Bank Connector Project — grant — Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency
(O 1448-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
Urban Redevelopment Tax Increment Equivalent Fund — establish — Declaring certain
improvements — public purpose — collection of service payments (O 2088-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2217

Funds
Cudell Improvement Incorporated — agreement — Winterfest Program — Urban Development Action
Grant Funds (O 2108-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2318
Expense fund for the Chief of Police — amend Sec. 135.091 (O 1879-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
Urban Redevelopment Tax Increment Equivalent Fund — establish — Declaring certain
improvements — public purpose — collection of service payments (O 2088-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2317

Grants
Community Development Grant (Recycle Ohio) Program 2007 — Ohio Department of Natural
Resources (O 1854-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328
Family Caregiver Support Program — Western Reserve Area Agency on Aging — Community
Development — contracts — implement the program (O 1893-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
Flats East Bank Connector Project — Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency
(O 1448-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
PROES — Building HOPE Program — LNE & Associates, LLC — Economic Development
(O 2052-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
Woolen Mills Project — U. S. Environmental Protection Agency — Morgana Avenue aka 6118
Broadway Ave. — environmental cleanup — URS Corporation — contracts (O 1881-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332

Health Centers
Elevators — maintain and repair — various city health centers (O 2011-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333
Salting & snowplowing parking lots, walkways, and sidewalks — City health center — Public
Health Administration Building (O 2012-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333

Health Department
Correction Division — transfer from Public Health Dept. to the Public Safety Dept. — new
Sects. 135.57, 135.58, 135.59, 135.60, 135.61, 135.62, & 135.63 — amend Sects.
135.01 & 141.02 — repeal Sects. 141.06, 141.07, 141.071, 141.072, 141.08, 141.081,
& 141.09 (O 1871-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2329
Cranwood Pkwy., 19200 — - lease property — M.B.D. Realty, LLC. — store and maintain
vehicles — House of Corrections (O 2009-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333
Elevators — maintain and repair — various city health centers (O 2011-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333
Miles Ave., 9111 & 9119 — lease space — vehicle-storage parking — Division of Air Quality
(O 2010-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333
Salting & snowplowing parking lots, walkways, and sidewalks — City health center — Public
Health Administration Building (O 2012-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333
Trans fats — banning from restaurants (R 2104-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2321

Highland Park Golf Course
Mill Creek tributary — County improvement — agreement — Cuyahoga County Board of Health
(O 1962-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333

Homeless
Homeless assistance activities — contracts — non-profit agencies — Cuyahoga County
- Cleveland/Cuyahoga County Office of Homeless Services (O 1884-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2343

House of Corrections
Cranwood Pkwy., 19200 — - lease property — M.B.D. Realty, LLC. — store and maintain
vehicles — House of Corrections (O 2009-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333

Land Reutilization Program
E. 60th St. — Eric Payne (O 1889-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
E. 60th St. — William Ladd and Noami R. Franklin Ladd (O 1888-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
E. 66th St. — Viola M. Super and Lucius C. Oldham, Jr. (O 1890-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332

2353

The City Record

88

December 13, 2006

E. 70th St. — Lawrence Calloway (O 1810-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326
E. 70th St., Zoeter & Lawnview Aves. — New Mount Zion Baptist Church (O 1461-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2339
E. 84th St. — Lillian Roberts (O 1733-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2341
Kinsman Rd. & E. 117th St. — Bethel Church of Christ (Holiness) USA (O 2089-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2215
Kosciuszko, Sowinski, Pulaski Aves. — Cleveland Municipal School District (O 1811-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326
Tiverton Rd., — Collinwood and Nottingham Villages Development Corporation (O 2090-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2315

Landmark Commission
Designation of landmarks and landmarks districts — amend Sec. 161.04 (O 1281-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
Justus Cozad House, The — designate — Cleveland Landmark (O 1817-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2121

Lease Agreement
Circadian Knight Corp. d/b/a Top Gun — office space — Burke Lakefront Airport
(O 1847-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2342

Leases
Community United Head Start and Day Care, Inc. — Earl B. Turner Recreation Center
(O 1548-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325
Cranwood Pkwy., 19200 — - lease property — M.B.D. Realty, LLC. — store and maintain
vehicles — House of Corrections (O 2009-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333
International Women’s Air and Space Museum, Inc. — Burke Lakefront Airport (O 1852-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2342
Miles Ave., 9111 & 9119 — lease space — vehicle-storage parking — Division of Air Quality
(O 2010-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333

Liquor Permits
Bosworth Ave., 3655-57 — objection — withdraw (Ward 19) (R 2094-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2319
Broadway Ave., 6542 — objection (Ward 12) (R 2095-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2319
Broadway Ave., 6542 — objection (Ward 12) (R 2096-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2319
Cedar Ave., 7002 — objection — withdraw (Ward 5) (R 2100-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2321
Denison Ave., 2101 — objection — withdraw (Ward 15) (R 2101-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2321
E. 105th St., 907 — objection — withdraw (Ward 8) (R 2103-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2321
E. 2nd St., 2123 — objection — withdraw (Ward 13) (R 2056-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2339
E. 93rd St., 3230 — objection (Ward 5) (R 2057-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2339
E. 93rd St., 3230 — objection (Ward 5) (R 2098-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2320
Kinsman Ave., 7535 — objection (Ward 5) (R 2099-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2320
Lee Rd., 4344 — objection (Ward 1) (R 2058-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2339
Mt. Auburn Rd., 9621 — objection — withdraw (Ward 4) (R 2102-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2321
W. 117th St., 3029 — objection — withdraw (Ward 19) (R 2097-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2320

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Consortium for Community/Economic Development — Housing Community Services Program — Ward
7 (O 2091-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2316
Union Miles Development Corporation — agreement — Youth and Senior Recreation Program Ward 2 (O 2092-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2318

Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency (NOACA)
Flats East Bank Connector Project — grant (O 1448-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324

Ohio Department of Natural Resources
Community Development Grant (Recycle Ohio) Program 2007 — grant (O 1854-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328

Parking
Miles Ave., 9111 & 9119 — lease space — vehicle-storage parking — Division of Air Quality
(O 2010-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333
System Property Development Company, Inc. — buy City-owned property — (east corner) Huron
Rd. & E. 4th St. — payment — System Parking Development Company, Inc. (O 1577-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325

Parks
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds — $2,825,000 — issuance and sale of bonds
(O 2073-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2291

2354

December 13, 2006

The City Record

89

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
City Year — contracts — community service work (O 1880-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
Cleveland Cultural Gardens — amend Sec. 559.02 — new Sects. 559.235 through 559.243
(O 1062-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
Collinwood Athletic Complex — concession agreement — food and beverage concession
(O 1684-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326
Community United Head Start and Day Care, Inc. — lease — Earl B. Turner Recreation Center
(O 1548-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325
Daniel Morgan Elementary School (new construction) — E. 88th & E. 92nd Sts., & Wade Park
Ave. to Morris Ct. (between) — sell City-owned property — Cleveland Municipal School
District (O 1689-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326
Golf carts — rental — Division of Recreation (O 1756-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326
Mill Creek tributary — County improvement — agreement — Cuyahoga County Board of Health
(O 1962-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333
Ticketmaster — agreement — ticket equipment and services — Division of Convention Center
and Stadium (O 1961-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333
Union Miles Development Corporation — agreement — Youth and Senior Recreation Program Ward 2 NEF (O 2092-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2318

Permits
Zaremba Avenue LLC — public right-of-way — building foundation system — parking garage
and residential building (O 1857-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328
Anthony Celebrezze Federal Office Building — security devices — installing, using, and
maintaining — U. S. General Services Administration — permit (O 1449-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
Gallop for Kids Run — HMA Promotions (O 2109-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2318
Taxi cabs — limit the number — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 1761-A-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2341

Personnel Department
Workers compensation purposes — - City of Cleveland become self-insured — feasibility study
(O 1891-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332

Plats
Wade Park Townhouses — A Residential Townhouse Development (F 2110-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269

Police Division
Expense fund for the Chief of Police — amend Sec. 135.091 (O 1879-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332

Port Control Department
Air service consulting and advising services — professional consultants
(O 1845-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2327
Business management consulting services — professional consultants (O 1846-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2327
Circadian Knight Corp. d/b/a Top Gun — Lease Agreement — office space — Burke Lakefront
Airport (O 1847-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2342
International Women’s Air and Space Museum, Inc. — lease — Burke Lakefront Airport
(O 1852-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2342
Norfolk Southern Railway Company — license agreement — sewer line — Milepost CD-192.23
(O 1848-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2342
Planning studies — amend Ord. 2380-02 (O 1853-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328
Promotions, and public service announcements — exchange of, or acceptance of, services —
agreements — local, state, and federal agencies and non-profit organizations —
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport and special
events (O 1849-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2342
Taxi cabs — limit the number — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(O 1761-A-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2341

Public Improvements
Public improvement projects — contracts — emergency services and acquire property rights —
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority rights-of-way — new Section 185.191
(O 2082-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2313

2355

The City Record

90

December 13, 2006

Purchases and Supplies Division
Daniel Morgan Elementary School (new construction) — E. 88th & E. 92nd Sts., & Wade Park
Ave. to Morris Ct. (between) — sell City-owned property — Cleveland Municipal School
District (O 1689-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326
New Grayton Rd. — New Lot 3A — sell City-owned property — Jonathan W. Ullrich
(O 1887-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332

Recognition
Bratton, Capt. Wayne E. (R 2130-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270
National City (R 2131-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270

Recreation Centers
Community United Head Start and Day Care, Inc. — lease — Earl B. Turner Recreation Center
(O 1548-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Great Lakes — restoration — Council support federal & state efforts (R 2106-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2322
Greater Cleveland Delta Foundation’s new location — Life Development Center — Council’s
support (R 2107-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2323
Main Street program — Council’s support (R 2105-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2322
Trans fats — banning from restaurants (R 2104-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2321

Right-of-Way
Zaremba Avenue LLC — public right-of-way — building foundation system — parking garage
and residential building (O 1857-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328
Anthony Celebrezze Federal Office Building — security devices — installing, using, and
maintaining — U. S. General Services Administration — permit (O 1449-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
Friendship Baptist Church — public right-of-way — 3 banners (O 1856-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328

Safety Department
Case Western Reserve University — agreement — police services — within the City
(O 1878-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
Correction Division — transfer from Public Health Dept. to the Public Safety Dept. — new
Sects. 135.57, 135.58, 135.59, 135.60, 135.61, 135.62, & 135.63 — amend Sects.
135.01 & 141.02 — repeal Sects. 141.06, 141.07, 141.071, 141.072, 141.08, 141.081,
& 141.09 (O 1871-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2329
Expense fund for the Chief of Police — amend Sec. 135.091 (O 1879-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
LifePak 12 defibrillators & LifePak 500 automatic external defibrillators — maintenance
- Medtronic Physio-Control — contracts (O 1877-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2343

Service Department
Zaremba Avenue LLC — public right-of-way — building foundation system — parking garage
and residential building (O 1857-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328
Anthony Celebrezze Federal Office Building — security devices — installing, using, and
maintaining — U. S. General Services Administration — permit (O 1449-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
Bessemer Avenue Extension Phase II project — final engineering services and Stage
3 services — Arcadis G & M of Ohio, Inc., formerly known as Arcadis FPS, Inc. —
Contract No. 64009 (O 1855-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328
Bridge projects (various) — Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency — apply
(O 1629-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325
Cleveland St. — secondary name — W. 11th St. — between Rowley Ave.
& Buhrer Ave. (O 1904-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333
Community Development Grant (Recycle Ohio) Program 2007 — grant — Ohio Department
of Natural Resources (O 1854-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328
Cornell Rd. Bridge, Woodland Ave./Kinsman Rd., E. 30th St., & Bellaire Rd.
Rehabilitation Phase II Projects — state funding — District One Public
Works Integrating Committee (O 1583-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325
E. 115th St. & Euclid Ave. — acquisition of certain easement interests — eliminate poles —
Euclid Corridor Transportation Project (O 1446-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
E. 117th St. (between Durant & Whitmore) — change name — Leonard B. Jackson St.
(O 1585-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325

2356

December 13, 2006

The City Record

91

E. 12th St. & St. Clair Ave. N.E. — intent to vacate (R 1862-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2335
E. 140th St. (between Abel Ave. & Benwood Ave.) — designate — “Anna ‘Mama’ Chatman Way”
(O 1642-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326
E. 59th St. — vacate (O 2083-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2314
E. 66th Pl. (12 feet wide) — vacate a portion (R 1720-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2335
East 34th Street Bridge — climbing system — Director of Transportation of the State of
Ohio — consent of the City of Cleveland (O 1860-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328
Father John Kumse Way — Change the name — E. 156th Pl. — between Saranac Rd & Holmes Ave.
(O 1861-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328
Flats East Bank Connector Project — grant — Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency
(O 1448-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
Friendship Baptist Church — public right-of-way — 3 banners (O 1856-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328
Front-end loader dumpster containers and concrete receptacle lids — purchase — Division
of Waste Collection and Disposal (O 1630-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326
Gallop for Kids Run — permit — HMA Promotions (O 2109-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2318
Hamilton Ct., N.E. — vacate (O 2084-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2314
New Grayton Rd. — New Lot 3A — sell City-owned property — Jonathan W. Ullrich
(O 1887-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
Penn Court N.W. — vacate (O 1269-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
Processing of recyclables — Division of Waste Collection and Disposal (O 1859-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328
Public improvement projects — contracts — emergency services and acquire property rights —
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority rights-of-way — new Section 185.191
(O 2082-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2313
Richmond Ave., S.E. — vacate (O 2085-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2314
Ridge Road Scale House and Ridge Road Transfer Station — clean and maintain scale pits —
Division of Waste Collection and Disposal (O 1858-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328
Stuber Court N.E. — intent to vacate a portion (R 1578-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2335
Triskett Rd. — resurfacing — amend Ord. No. 1228-98 (O 1631-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326
West Lakeside Avenue N.W. — intent to vacate (R 1468-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2335

Sewers
Norfolk Southern Railway Company — license agreement — sewer line — Milepost CD-192.23 —
Port Control (O 1848-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2342

State of Ohio
East 34th Street Bridge — climbing system — Director of Transportation of the State of
Ohio — consent of the City of Cleveland (O 1860-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328

Street Vacation
E. 12th St. & St. Clair Ave. N.E. — intent to vacate (R 1862-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2335
E. 59th St. — vacate (O 2083-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2314
E. 66th Pl. (12 feet wide) — vacate a portion (R 1720-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2335
Hamilton Ct., N.E. — vacate (O 2084-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2314
Penn Court N.W. — vacate (O 1269-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
Richmond Ave., S.E. — vacate (O 2085-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2314
Stuber Court N.E. — intent to vacate a portion (R 1578-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2335
West Lakeside Avenue N.W. — intent to vacate (R 1468-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2335

Streets
Bridges and Roadways Improvement Bonds — $17,935,000 — issuance and sale of bonds
(O 2070-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270

Streets — Name
Cleveland St. — secondary name — W. 11th St. — between Rowley Ave.
& Buhrer Ave. (O 1904-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333
E. 117th St. (between Durant & Whitmore) — change name — Leonard B. Jackson St.
(O 1585-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325

Studies
Workers compensation purposes — - City of Cleveland become self-insured — feasibility study
(O 1891-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332

2357

The City Record

92

December 13, 2006

Taxes
Public purpose improvement (real property) — tax exempt — blight study —
Compensation Agreement — Tax Increment Financing Agreement —
Veterans Administration Urban Redevelopment Tax Increment
Equivalent Fund (O 2006-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2323
Urban Redevelopment Tax Increment Equivalent Fund — establish — Declaring certain
improvements — public purpose — collection of service payments
(O 2088-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2317

Taxicabs
Taxi cabs — limit the number — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(O 1761-A-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2341
Taxicabs — new Sec. 443.37 — amend Sects. 443.03, 443.06, & 443.26 — repeal Sec. 443.07
(O 1820-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2327

Union-Miles Development Corporation
Youth and Senior Recreation Program — agreement Ward 2 NEF (O 2092-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2318

University Circle
University Circle Design District (UCDD) — establish (O 1895-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
University Circle Design District — creation — new Sec. 341.221 — repeal Sec. 341.06 —
performance bond for building alterations (O 1766-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326

Utilities Department
Computer network equipment — purchase — Division of Cleveland Public Power
(O 2079-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2312
Distribution water mains — cleaning and cement mortar lining — public improvement
(O 1843-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2327
iTRACS — contracts — provide and install new and upgraded software —
Public Utilities (O 2077-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2312
Keller II Water Tower — City of Brunswick — public improvement (O 1254-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
Lakeside Ave., 1201 — public improvement — outside areas (O 2081-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2313
Promotional materials — purchase — Division of Cleveland Public Power
(O 2080-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2312
TeleAtlas — contracts — GIS-related street centerline data subscription — Public Utilities
(O 2078-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2312

Vacant Buildings
Vandalism of vacant buildings and structures — amend Sec. 623.08 (O 1965-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333

Vacant Structures
Vandalism of vacant buildings and structures — amend Sec. 623.08 (O 1965-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333

Ward 01
Lee Rd., 4344 — objection — liquor permit (R 2058-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2339

Ward 02
Community United Head Start and Day Care, Inc. — lease — Earl B. Turner Recreation Center
(O 1548-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325
Gray, Harry — condolence (R 2113-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Miles Ave., 9111 & 9119 — lease space — vehicle-storage parking — Division of Air Quality
(O 2010-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333
Richmond Ave., S.E. — vacate (O 2085-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2314
Smith, Robert — condolence (R 2114-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Union Miles Development Corporation — agreement — Youth and Senior Recreation Program —
NEF (O 2092-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2318

2358

December 13, 2006

The City Record

93

Ward 03
E. 120th St., 3509 — declare — blighted premises — acquire and sell premises — KidsHealth
2020 (O 1364-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
E. 140th St. (between Abel Ave. & Benwood Ave.) — designate — “Anna ‘Mama’ Chatman Way”
(O 1642-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326
Kinsman Rd. & E. 117th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Bethel Church of Christ
(Holiness) USA (O 2089-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2315
Skipper Ray, Della — congratulation (R 2127-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270

Ward 04
Cornell Rd. Bridge, Woodland Ave./Kinsman Rd., E. 30th St., & Bellaire Rd.
Rehabilitation Phase II Projects — state funding — District One Public Works —
Integrating Committee (O 1583-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325
Mt. Auburn Rd., 9621 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 2102-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2321

Ward 05
Bridge projects (various) — Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency — apply
(O 1629-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325
Cedar Ave., 7002 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 2100-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2321
Cornell Rd. Bridge, Woodland Ave./Kinsman Rd., E. 30th St., & Bellaire Rd.
Rehabilitation Phase II Projects — state funding — District One Public Works —
Integrating Committee (O 1583-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325
E. 93rd St., 3230 — objection — liquor permit (R 2057-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2339
E. 93rd St., 3230 — objection — liquor permit (R 2098-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2320
East 34th Street Bridge — climbing system — Director of Transportation of the State of
Ohio — consent of the City of Cleveland (O 1860-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328
Friendship Baptist Church — public right-of-way — 3 banners (O 1856-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328
Gallop for Kids Run — permit — HMA Promotions (O 2109-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2318
Kinsman Ave., 7535 — objection — liquor permit (R 2099-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2320
St. Catherine Ave. (south) — change the Use, Area and Height District — General Retail
Business District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District (O 1896-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334

Ward 06
Bridge projects (various) — Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency — apply
(O 1629-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325
Cornell Rd. Bridge, Woodland Ave./Kinsman Rd., E. 30th St., & Bellaire Rd.
Rehabilitation Phase II Projects — state funding — District One Public
Works Integrating Committee (O 1583-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325
Cranwood Pkwy., 19200 — - lease property — M.B.D. Realty, LLC. — store and maintain
vehicles — House of Corrections (O 2009-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333
University Circle Design District (UCDD) — establish (O 1895-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334

Ward 07
Consortium for Community/Economic Development — Housing Community Services Program — NEF
(O 2091-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2316
Daniel Morgan Elementary School (new construction) — E. 88th & E. 92nd Sts., & Wade Park
Ave. to Morris Ct. (between) — sell City-owned property — Cleveland Municipal School
District (O 1689-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326
E. 60th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Eric Payne (O 1889-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
E. 60th St. — Land Reutilization Program — William Ladd and Noami R. Franklin Ladd
(O 1888-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
E. 66th Pl. (12 feet wide) — vacate a portion (R 1720-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2335
E. 66th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Viola M. Super and Lucius C. Oldham, Jr.
(O 1890-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
E. 70th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Lawrence Calloway (O 1810-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326
E. 70th St., Zoeter & Lawnview Aves. — Land Reutilization Program — New Mount Zion Baptist
Church (O 1461-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2339
E. 84th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Lillian Roberts (O 1733-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2341
Kosciuszko, Sowinski, Pulaski Aves. — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland Municipal
School District (O 1811-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326

2359

The City Record

94

December 13, 2006

Ward 08
Bridge projects (various) — Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency — apply
(O 1629-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325
E. 105th St., 1570 — declare property — blighted premises — acquire and sell premises —
FEDCO Services, LLC (O 1278-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
E. 105th St., 907 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 2103-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2321
Johnson Couts, Edythe Gwendolyn — condolence (R 2116-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Smith, Troy — congratulation (R 2121-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270
University Circle Design District (UCDD) — establish (O 1895-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334

Ward 09
Bridge projects (various) — Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency — apply
(O 1629-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325
E. 115th St. & Euclid Ave. — acquisition of certain easement interests — eliminate poles —
Euclid Corridor Transportation Project (O 1446-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
E. 117th St. (between Durant & Whitmore) — change name — Leonard B. Jackson St.
(O 1585-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325
Justus Cozad House, The — designate — Cleveland Landmark (O.1817-06)
Smith, Troy — congratulation (R 2121-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270
University Circle Design District (UCDD) — establish (O 1895-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
Wade Park Townhouses — A Residential Townhouse Development — Plat (F 2110-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269

Ward 10
Collinwood Athletic Complex — concession agreement — food and beverage concession
(O 1684-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326
Deise Ave., Maxwell Ave., Aspinwall Ave., E. 140th St. (parcels bounded by) — Change the
Use Districts — Residence Industry (O 1549-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
E. 150th St. (east) — north of St. Clair Ave. — change the Use and Area Districts —
Multi-Family Residential District and a ‘C’ Area District (O 1897-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
Euclid Ave. (north), east of Avalon Rd. — change the Use, Area and Height District —
Multi-Family Residential District, a ‘D’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District
(O 1973-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2335

Ward 11
Brentar, Jerome A. — condolence (R 2111-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Brentar, Jerry — condolence (R 2117-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Contorno, Donna — condolence (R 2118-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Father John Kumse Way — Change the name — E. 156th Pl. — between Saranac Rd & Holmes Ave.
(O 1861-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328
Knaus, Andrew — condolence (R 2119-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Shawnee Ave. property (south side near intersection of Neff Rd. & E. 185th St.) — change
the zoning — Family Residential District (O 1765-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
Tiverton Rd., — Land Reutilization Program — Collinwood and Nottingham Villages Development
Corporation (O 2090-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2315

Ward 12
Broadway Ave., 6542 — objection — liquor permit (R 2095-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2319
Broadway Ave., 6542 — objection — liquor permit (R 2096-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2319
E. 59th St. — vacate (O 2083-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2314
Woolen Mills Project — grant — U. S. Environmental Protection Agency — Morgana Avenue aka
6118 Broadway Ave. — environmental cleanup — URS Corporation — contracts
(O 1881-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332

Ward 13
Zaremba Avenue LLC — public right-of-way — building foundation system — parking garage
and residential building (O 1857-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328
Bratton, Capt. Wayne E. — recognition (R 2130-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270
Center St., 2019 — redevelopment agreement — The K & D Group (O 2053-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
Cleveland St. — secondary name — W. 11th St. — between Rowley Ave.
& Buhrer Ave. (O 1904-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2333
E. 12th St. & St. Clair Ave. N.E. — intent to vacate (R 1862-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2335
E. 2nd St., 2123 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 2056-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2339

2360

December 13, 2006

The City Record

95

Flats East Bank Connector Project — grant — Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency
(O 1448-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hamilton Ct., N.E. — vacate (O 2084-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jennings Rd. — north of Beltline St., south of I-71 — change zoning of land — Unrestricted
Industry District, an ‘A’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District (O 1898-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Katzel, Rhoda — congratulation (R 2123-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeside Ave., 1201 — public improvement — outside areas (O 2081-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Latina, Lanee — congratulation (R 2122-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
National City — recognition (R 2131-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Penn Court N.W. — vacate (O 1269-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Square, 140 & Ontario St., 2000 — Park Building — development agreement — Howells
and Howells Enterprises, LLC (O 1883-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton Rd., 2065 — residential condominium units, green space, and parking — development
agreement — J. Christopher Enterprises, Inc. (O 1882-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stuber Court N.E. — intent to vacate a portion (R 1578-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
System Property Development Company, Inc. — buy City-owned property — (east corner) Huron
Rd. & E. 4th St. — payment — System Parking Development Company, Inc. (O 1577-06). . . . . .
Urban Redevelopment Tax Increment Equivalent Fund — establish — Declaring certain
improvements — public purpose — collection of service payments (O 2088-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Valley View Hope VI Development Project Phase I — contract — Valleyview Phase I, L.P. —
amend Ord. 1472-06 (O 2087-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
WECO Fund, Inc. — contracts — funds to be lent — small businesses — located on
Public Square to E. 30th St. (O 2086-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Lakeside Avenue N.W. — intent to vacate (R 1468-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 2324
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2314
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

2334
2270
2313
2270
2270
2324

. . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2332
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2335
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2325
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2317
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2316
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2316
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2335

Ward 15
Denison Ave., 2101 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 2101-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2321
Jennings Rd. — north of Beltline St., south of I-71 — change zoning of land — Unrestricted
Industry District, an ‘A’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District (O 1898-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334

Ward 16
Ridge Road Scale House and Ridge Road Transfer Station — clean and maintain scale pits —
Division of Waste Collection and Disposal (O 1858-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328

Ward 17
Bridge Brigade — congratulation (R 2128-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bridge projects (various) — Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency — apply
(O 1629-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fabrizi, Frank — condolence (R 2120-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hawk, Sr. Donna — congratulation (R 2129-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vargo, Dr. Edward G. — condolence (R 2112-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 65th St. & Storer Ave. (northwest corner) — change the Use District —
Shopping Center District (O 1885-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

2325
2269
2270
2269

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334

Ward 18
Cudell Improvement Incorporated — agreement — Winterfest Program —
Urban Development Action Grant Funds (O 2108-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2318

Ward 19
Bosworth Ave., 3655-57 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 2094-06) .
D’Emilia, Alfonso — congratulation (R 2124-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kole, Peter C. — congratulation (R 2125-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Russ, Dick — congratulation (R 2126-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 117th St., 3029 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 2097-06) . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

2319
2270
2270
2270
2320

Ward 20
Kemer, Tom — condolence (R 2115-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Triskett Rd. — resurfacing — amend Ord. No. 1228-98 (O 1631-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326

Ward 21
Bridge projects (various) — Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency — apply
(O 1629-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2325
Kemer, Tom — condolence (R 2115-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269

2361

The City Record

96

December 13, 2006

Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Front-end loader dumpster containers and concrete receptacle lids — purchase
(O 1630-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2326
Processing of recyclables (O 1859-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328
Ridge Road Scale House and Ridge Road Transfer Station — clean and maintain scale pits
(O 1858-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2328

Water Division
Distribution water mains — cleaning and cement mortar lining — public improvement
(O 1843-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2327

Water Mains
Distribution water mains — cleaning and cement mortar lining — public improvement
(O 1843-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2327

Western Reserve Area Agency on Aging
Family Caregiver Support Program — grant — Community Development — contracts — implement
the program (O 1893-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2332

Zoning
Deise Ave., Maxwell Ave., Aspinwall Ave., E. 140th St. (parcels bounded by) —
Change the Use Districts — Residence Industry (O 1549-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
E. 150th St. (east) — north of St. Clair Ave. — change the Use and Area Districts —
Multi-Family Residential District and a ‘C’ Area District
(O 1897-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
Euclid Ave. (north), east of Avalon Rd. — change the Use, Area and Height District —
Multi-Family Residential District, a ‘D’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District
(O 1973-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2335
Jennings Rd. — north of Beltline St., south of I-71 — change zoning of land —
Unrestricted Industry District, an ‘A’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District
(O 1898-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
Shawnee Ave. property (south side near intersection of Neff Rd. & E. 185th St.) —
change the zoning — Family Residential District (O 1765-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
St. Catherine Ave. (south) — change the Use, Area and Height District — General Retail
Business District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District
(O 1896-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
University Circle Design District (UCDD) — establish (O 1895-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334
W. 65th St. & Storer Ave. (northwest corner) — change the Use District —
Shopping Center District (O 1885-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2334

2362

