The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

January the Fourth, Two Thousand and Six

Frank G. Jackson
Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Emily Lipovan
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Nina Turner
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Joe Cimperman
Joseph Santiago
Brian J. Cummins
Kevin J. Kelley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Rules of Council
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
4
5
12
13
14
15
15
15
15
16
16
17

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Interim Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner

President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Nina Turner..................................................16204 Sunny Glen Avenue
Robert J. White .................................................9703 Cardwell Avenue
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
Patricia J. Britt........................................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis.........................................................7416 Star Avenue
Sabra Pierce Scott ..............................................9212 Kempton Avenue
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
Roosevelt Coats ....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
Joe Cimperman....................................................3053 West 12th Street
Joseph Santiago ...................................................3169 West 14th Street
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
Kevin J. Kelley ..............................................6608 Woodhaven Avenue
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ...............................................16519 West Park Road
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Emily Lipovan, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin

44128
44105
44120
44120
44105
44120
44103
44108
44106
44112
44119
44105
44113
44109
44109
44144
44102
44102
44102
44111
44111

MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
__________, Chief of Staff
__________, Chief Operating Officer
__________, Executive Assistant
__________, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
__________, Executive Assistant to the Mayor
__________, Inter-Governmental Affairs Officer
DEPT. OF LAW – __________, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Interim Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 1404 East 9th Street
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Julius Ciaccia, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – John Mok, Interim Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Interim Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Interim Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Anjou Parekh, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Interim Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Antoinette Thompson, Interim Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – _____________, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – _______________, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNELAND HUMAN RESOURCES – Sue Rudman, Interim Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – ______________, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – _______________, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Kenya Taylor, Interim Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, _____________, Director; Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L.
Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry, Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline
Hardaway, Janet Jankura, Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J.
Livingstone, Margot James Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Jonalyn M. Krupka, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
William Morrison.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; ___________, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Margaret Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director ____________, President;
Finance Director ____________, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director ______________; Law Director
______________; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director _____________ Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – ____________, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Rev. Sam Edward Small.
FAIR CAMPAIGN FINANCE COMMISSION – Chris Warren, C. Ellen Connally, Hillary S.
Taylor.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council
Member ____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Cindy Barber, Vice Chair; Michael Doud,
Doris Honsa, Richard Lenard.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director _______________; Chairman; Finance
Director ________________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Dona
Brady; Councilman ______________.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman; Donald
Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond Ossovicki, Chief Electrical
Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman; Earl S. Bumgarner,
Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, Lawrence Skule, Chief Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V.
Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – James D. Gibans, Chair;
Randall B. Shorr, Vice Chair; Kevin Dreyfuss-Wells, India Pierce Lee, Laura M. Noble,
____________, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Council Member ____________, Robert Jackimowicz;
Robert Keiser, Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
14B
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Emanuella Groves
13A
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Anita Laster Mays
14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore
14A
Judge Charles Patton, Jr.
12B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Michael Ryan
12A
Judge Angela R. Stokes
15C
Judge Joan Synenberg
13C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
12C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Michael E. Flanagan – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak – Bailiff;
Regina Daniel – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2006

Vol. 93

No. 4804

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JANUARY 2, 2006
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

Published weekly by the City Clerk,

10:00 A.M.—Aviation & Transportation Committee: Kelley, Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Britt,
Cleveland, Dolan, Turner.

Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland

www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Britt, Coats, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek, Santiago, Turner.

Address all communications to

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

The City Record is available
online at

EMILY LIPOVAN
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Dolan,
Kelley, Polensek, Santiago, Westbrook.

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2006-2009

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chair, Westbrook, Vice Chair, Conwell, Dolan,
Lewis, Reed, Zone.

MONDAY—Alternating

Rules Committee: Jackson, Chair;
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook.

9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Johnson,
Chair; White, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek,
Turner.
9:30 A.M. — Health & Human Services Committee: Britt, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair; Conwell, Kelley,
Reed, Santiago, Westbrook.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Brady, Chair; Turner, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Johnson,
Polensek,
Reed,
Santiago,
White.
11:00 A.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee: Lewis, Chair; Santiago, Vice
Chair; Brancatelli, Coats, Conwell,
Johnson, Turner.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Britt,
Coats, Conwell, Pierce Scott, Westbrook, White, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic
Development
Committee:
Pierce Scott, Chair; Brancatelli,
Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Cimperman,
Cummins, Coats, Lewis, Westbrook.
Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Legislation Committee:
Cleveland, Chair; Dolan, Vice Chair;
Cimperman,
Lewis,
Pierce
Scott,
Reed, White.

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:

Personnel and Operations Committee: Zone, Chair; Britt, Cimperman,
Coats, Pierce Scott.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats, Chair; Cintron, Reed, Pierce
Scott, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, January 2, 2006
Council Members – Elect present:
Brady, Brancatelli, Britt, Cimperman,
Cleveland,
Coats,
Conwell,
Cummins, Dolan, Johnson, Kelley,
Lewis, Polensek, Reed, Santiago,
Pierce Scott, Sweeney, Turner, Westbrook, White and Zone.
Also present was Mayor Frank G.
Jackson.
Det. James Kiefer of the Cleveland Police Department, 2nd District
sang the National Anthem.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
prayer was offered by Rev. Dr.
Larry Macon, Sr., Senior Pastor of
Mt. Zion Baptist Church. Pledge of
Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council MemberElect Pierce Scott, the reading of
the minutes of the last meeting
were dispensed with and the journal
approved. Seconded by Council Member-Elect Kelley.

3

File No. 1-06.
December 19, 2005
Sandra Franklin
First Assistant Clerk
Cleveland City Council
601 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Dear Ms. Franklin:
You are hereby requested to serve
as Clerk of Council Pro Tempore for
the purpose of calling the January
2, 2006 Council meeting to order and
until such time as the Council
selects a Clerk of Council.
Your assistance is appreciated.
Very truly yours,
Frank G. Jackson,
President of Council
Received.
OATH OF OFFICE
File No. 2-06.
Frank G. Jackson,
ceived.

Mayor.

Re-

OATH OF OFFICE
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL
The Oath of Office was administered to the 2006-2009 Council by
Judge Larry A. Jones, Presiding
Judge and Administrative Judge of
Cleveland Municipal Court.
File No. 3-06.
January 2, 2006
Ms. Emily Lipovan Holan
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
City of Cleveland:
Dear Clerk Holan:
Pursuant to Section 194 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland, I
hereby certify to you that there has
been filed in the Office of the Clerk
of Council, the Oaths of Office, subscribed by the following Council
Members:
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

Nina Turner
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Joseph Cimperman
Joseph Santiago

The City Record

4
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward

15
16
17
18
19
20
21

—
—
—
—
—
—
—

Brian J. Cummins
Kevin Kelley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

Very truly yours,
Sandra Franklin,
City Clerk
Clerk of Council Pro Tempore
Received.
ELECTION OF TEMPORARY
CHAIRMAN
Council Member Michael D. Polensek moved, pursuant to Rule 9, that
Council Member Robert J. White
serve as Temporary Chairman for
the purpose of organizing the Council, Council Member Dona Brady seconded the motion. Council Member
Kevin Conwell moved that nominations for Temporary Chairman be
closed. A roll call ensued.
Council Member White received 21
votes. Those who voted for Council
Member White were: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Britt, Cimperman, Cleveland, Coats, Conwell,
Cummins, Dolan, Johnson, Kelley,
Lewis, Pierce Scott, Polensek, Reed,
Santiago, Sweeney, Turner, Westbrook, White and Zone.
Council Member Robert J. White
assumed the Chair and thanked the
Council Members for giving him the
opportunity to serve as Temporary
Chairman.
ELECTION OF
COUNCIL PRESIDENT
The Temporary Chairman stated
the next order of business was the
election of the President of Council.
Council Member Sabra Pierce Scott
moved that Council Member Martin
J. Sweeney serve as President of
Council for the 2006 - 2009 Council
Term. Council Member Kevin Conwell seconded the motion. Council
Member Nina Turner moved that the
nomination for Council President be
closed. A roll called ensued. The
Temporary Chairman instructed the
members of Council to state the
name of the candidate, Martin J.
Sweeney, when responding to the
roll call and requested the Clerk Pro
Tempore to call the roll call on the
election of President of Council.
After completion of the roll call,
the Clerk Pro Tempore announced
that
Council
Member
Sweeney
received 21 votes. Those who voted
for Council Member Sweeney were:
Council Members Brady, Brancatelli,
Britt, Cimperman, Cleveland, Coats,
Conwell, Cummins, Dolan, Johnson,
Kelley, Lewis, Pierce Scott, Polensek,
Reed,
Santiago,
Sweeney,
Turner, Westbrook, White and Zone.
Council Member Martin J. Sweeney,
having received a majority of vote
of all the members elected to Council, is the duly elected President of
Council for the 2006-2009 term.
The
Temporary
Chairman
requested Council Member Martin J.
Sweeney’s
family
to
escort
the
newly elected Council President to
the Chair. The Honorable Judge
Gerald F. Sweeney (Retired), of

January 4, 2006

Cleveland Municipal Court administered the oath of office to Council
Member Martin J. Sweeney, the
newly elected President of Council.
Council President Sweeney assumed
the Chair and thanked the Council
Members for giving him the opportunity to serve as President of Council of 2006 - 2009 term, introduced his
family and gave brief remarks.

Personal expressions were addressed to the body by the Council
President, Council Members and the
Council Clerk.
The Council adjourned at 9:15 p.m.
to meet on Monday, January 9, 2006,
at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

OATH OF OFFICE
File No. 4-06.
Martin J. Sweeney, President of
Council. Received.
ELECTION OF
COUNCIL CLERK

City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Council Member Joseph Santiago
moved that in order to expedite the
orderly organization of the 2006 2009 Council proceed with the election of City Clerk and placed in
nomination the name Emily Lipovan
Holan as City Clerk, Clerk of Council for the 2006 - 2009 Council term.
Council Members Anthony Brancatelli seconded the motion. Council
Member Joseph Cimperman moved
that the nomination for City Clerk,
Clerk of Council be closed. Council
President Sweeney instructed the
members of Council to state the
name of the candidate, Emily Lipovan Holan, when responding to the
roll call and requested the Clerk Pro
Tempore to call the roll on the election of City Clerk, Clerk of Council.
After completion of the roll call,
it was announced that Emily Lipovan Holan received 21 votes. Those
voting for Emily Lipovan Holan
were: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Britt, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Dolan,
Johnson, Kelley, Lewis, Pierce Scott,
Polensek, Reed, Santiago, Sweeney,
Turner, Westbrook, White, Zone.
The Honorable Judge Joan Synenberg, Associate Judge of Cleveland
Municipal Court administered the
oath of office to Emily Lipovan
Holan, the newly elected City Clerk,
Clerk of Council.
Council Clerk Holan assumed the
duties of her office and thanked the
Council Members for giving her the
opportunity to serve as City Clerk,
Clerk of Council of 2006 - 2009 term,
introduced her family and gave
brief remarks.
OATH OF OFFICE
File No. 5-06.
Emily Lipovan Holan, City Clerk,
Clerk of Council. Received.
MOTION
Council Member Jay Westbrook
moved that the Rules of Council
for the 2002-2006 Council term prevail for the 2006-2009 Council Term
until such time as the Council
President convenes the Rules Committee. Without objection, motion
approved.
RULES OF COUNCIL
File No. 6-06.
Rules of Council
2006-2009. Received.

4

for

the

years

THE CALENDAR
The following measure will be on
its final passage at the next meeting:
ORDINANCE
Ord. No. 1780-05.
By Mayor Campbell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment Financing Agreement with
Steelyard Commons LLC, to provide
for payments to the Cleveland City
School District and to provide for
the creation of the Steelyard Commons TIF Fund to be used for development and recreational improvements; and to declare certain improvements to real property to be a
public purpose.
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, improvements to
real property may be declared to be
a public purpose where fee title to
such real property was, at one time,
held by the City of Cleveland and
the real property is then leased or
conveyed by the City; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1541-04, passed October 17, 2005, and prior to the passage of this ordinance, the City
approved both the acquisition and
conveyance of fee title to certain
real property, which is more particularly described in the documents set forth in the file described
in this ordinance (the “Real Property”); and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, such improvements so declared to be a public purpose may be exempt from real property taxation; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.42 of
the Revised Code, the owners of the
improvements may be required to
make annual service payments in
lieu of taxes that would have been
paid had such improvements not
been exempt; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, the exemption
may exceed 75% of the improvements for up to 30 years without the
approval of the board of education
of the school district within the territory of which the improvements
are or will be located if the ordinance declaring improvements to a
parcel to be a public purpose specifies that service payments in lieu of
taxes provided for in Section 5709.42

January 4, 2006
of the Ohio Revised Code shall be
paid to the school district in which
the parcel is located in the amount
of the taxes that would have been
payable to the school district if the
improvements had not been exempted from taxation; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to and in
accordance with the provisions of
Section 5709.41 of the Revised Code,
this Council finds and determines
that 100% of the increase in assessed
value of the Property after its acquisition by the City (which increase in
assessed value is referred to as
“Improvement” as defined in Section
5709.41 of the Revised Code) will be
a public purpose.
Section 2. That one hundred percent (100%) of the Improvements
are declared exempt from real property taxation for a period of 20
years beginning _____________ 2005;
and that in no event shall the
exemption period extend beyond
_________, 2026.
Section 3. That, under Section
5709.42 of the Revised Code, the owners of the Improvements shall make
service payments for a period of 20
years in lieu of the exempt taxes to
the Cuyahoga County Treasurer; the
payments shall be charged and collected in the same manner, and shall
be in an amount not less than the
taxes that would have been paid had
the Improvements not been exempt
from taxation.
Section 4. That a portion of the
service payments collected under
Section 3 of this ordinance shall be
distributed by the Cuyahoga County
Treasurer to the Treasurer of the
Cleveland Municipal School District
(“District”) in the amount of the
taxes that would have been payable
to the District had the Improvement
not been exempt from taxation.
Section 5. That the Mayor or
Director of Economic Development,
with the approval of the Director of
Law, is authorized to enter into one
or more agreements with such parties as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the purposes of
this ordinance.
Section 6. That under Section
5709.43 of the Revised Code there is
hereby established a Steelyard Commons Urban Redevelopment Tax
Increment Equivalent Fund (“Steelyard Commons TIF Fund”), 70% of
which shall be used for acquisition
of land and to make improvements
to the Tow Path Trail and Canal
Basin Park. Of this 70%, if there are
remaining funds, they shall be used
for additional connector trails.
The remaining 30% shall be used
for retail assistance programs and
other commercial and industrial initiatives, including land acquisition,
within the City. This 30% will be
used primarily for projects that offset the impacts of Steelyard Commons on adjacent neighborhood commercial districts, and use of these
funds will be guided by the retail
impact study currently underway.
These funds will be disbursed quarterly as grants, on a competitive

The City Record
basis, under criteria established by
this Council and the Cleveland Citywide
Development
Corporation
(CCDC). The CCDC will evaluate
applications and make recommendations to this Council. Projects in the
following categories will be eligible:
Neighborhood Retail: specifically
those elements not funded by the
existing Storefront Program (such
as parking lots);
Neighborhood Small and Start-up
Businesses: to assist with small
business expansion, refine business
plans, assist entrepreneurs to “get
out of the garage and into a storefront,” etc.;
Neighborhood Arts Projects: projects that enhance a neighborhood
commercial/retail district;
Neighborhood Streetscape: in neighborhood commercial/residential districts;
Neighborhood
Industrial
Sites:
planning, environmental site assessments, etc., of underused and/or
abandoned neighborhood industrial
sites; and
Land Acquisition: to support commercial development adjacent to the
Tow Path Trail.
Section 7. That the service payments collected under Section 3
shall be distributed by the Cuyahoga County Treasurer to the Treasurer of the City of Cleveland to be
deposited in the Steelyard Commons
TIF Fund created by Section 6.
With the approval of the Director of
Economic
Development
and
the
Director of Law, money deposited in
the Steelyard Commons TIF Fund
shall be used to for the purposes
described in Section 6.
Section 8. That the Director of the
Office of Equal Opportunity shall
engage in discussions with the
County Engineer to explore how
employment of local residents and
minority and female business enterprises can best be advanced. The
Director of the Office of Equal
Opportunity shall report back to this
Council on the results of those discussions and shall make recommendations on how to achieve those
goals.
Section 9. That the signed letter
from Mitchell Schneider, President
of First Interstate Properties Ltd.,
dated December 2, 2005 to the Council Member of Ward 13 shall be
placed in File No. 1780-05-A.
Section 10. That there is hereby
created
an
Advisory
Committee
that shall consist of five members
selected as follows: one (1) member shall be appointed by this
Council; one (1) member shall be
appointed by the Mayor; one (1)
member shall be appointed by the
County Commissioners; and two (2)
members shall be appointed by the
Ohio Canal Corridor. The meetings
of the Advisory Committee may be
conducted at City Hall and shall be
open
to
the
public.
Each
six
months, the Advisory Committee
shall report to the Council Committees on Community and Economic Development and the Employment, Affirmative Action &
Training on all aspects of the Improvement, including without limitation, overall progress, success on
reaching employment goals, and a
description of any purchases made
in support of the Improvement.

5

5
Section 11. That it is found and
determined that all formal actions
of this Council concerning and
relating to the passage of this ordinance were adopted in open meetings of this Council, and any of its
committees that resulted in formal
action were in meetings open to
the public in compliance with the
law.
Section 12. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

RULES OF COUNCIL
RULES OF ORDER
GOVERNING THE COUNCIL
OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND
2006-2009
The following rules of order shall
govern the procedures of the City
Council and the conduct of its members.
I. MEETINGS: PLACE, TIME OF
CONVENING, QUORUM, ORDER
OF BUSINESS
Rule 1. Meetings—Place. All meetings of the Council shall be held in
the Council chamber in the city hall,
unless otherwise ordered by the
Council.
Rule
2.
Meetings—Public.
All
meetings of the Council or committees thereof shall be public, and
upon request of any citizen desiring
to be heard on any matter, then
under consideration by the Council,
the Council may, on motion, resolve
itself into a committee of the whole
and hear such citizen at such time
and for such period as Council may
determine. Persons desiring to be
heard by any committee of Council
on any matter then under consideration, may by consent of such committee be given an opportunity to be
heard thereon. All Rules of Council
minutes and records of the Council
shall be open to the public at all
reasonable times.
Rule 3. Regular Meetings. After
the Council has been organized pursuant to Section 28 of the Charter,
regular meetings of the Council
shall be held in the Council chamber every Monday evening at 7:00
o’clock
P.M.,
unless
otherwise
ordered by motion, resolution or
ordinance. Whenever the regular
meeting falls on a legal holiday or
a special election day — or the day
preceding a legal holiday or primary or other election day, the meeting shall be held on a day to be
fixed by the Council.
Rule 4. Summer Schedule. During
the months of July and August the
Council shall be on summer schedule and shall meet at such times as
shall be set forth in the resolution
of Council establishing such schedule.

6
Rule 5. Special Meetings. Special
meetings may be called at any time by
the Mayor, the President of Council, or
any five members upon at least twelve
(12) hours written notice to each member of the Council served personally on
each member or left at his usual place
of residence; provided, however, that
no such notice need be served on any
councilman present at a meeting of
Council at which the president of
Council may give oral notice of the
time and purpose of a special meeting. Any such notice shall state the
subjects to be Rules of Council considered at the meeting, and no other
subjects shall be there considered.
Rule 6. Quorum. A majority of all
the members elected to Council shall
be a quorum to do business, but a less
number may adjourn from day to day
and compel the attendance of absent
members in the manner and under
such penalties as shall be prescribed
by ordinance.
Rule 7. Order of Business.
The business of all regular meetings of the Council shall be transacted in the following order, unless the
Council by a two-thirds vote shall suspend the rules and change the order.
1. Roll call of members.
2. Prayer.
3. Pledge of Allegiance.
4. Disposal of the journal of the preceding meeting.
5. Reports and communications from
the Mayor.
6. Reports and communications from
departments, commissions and other
public officers.
7. Other communications, petitions
and memorials.
8. Reports of standing committees.
9. Reports of special committees.
10. Introduction of ordinances and
resolutions.
11. Second reading of ordinances
and resolutions.
12. Third reading of ordinances and
resolutions.
13. Reading and passage of emergency ordinances and resolutions.
14. Miscellaneous business shall be
permitted at the discretion of the
chair.
15. Report of the clerk with reference to absence of members.
16. Adjournment.
The presiding officer may at any
time without objection of the members of Council permit a member to
introduce an ordinance, resolution or
motion out of the regular order, provided however, if an objection is
made, a two-thirds vote of all members elected to Council shall be
required to permit such introduction
out of the regular order.
Rule 8. The Calendar. It shall be the
duty of the clerk to have set aside conspicuous1y in the City Record a portion to be entitled “The Calendar. The
following measures will be on their
passage at the next meeting.” Under
this title the clerk shall arrange and
have printed in consecutive order by
title all ordinances and resolutions
which are on for passage at the next
meeting of Council. In the event that
any of such ordinances or resolutions
have been amended the full text of
the operative sections of such ordinance or resolution as amended shall
be published in addition to the title

The City Record
thereof. When action upon any measure appearing upon the calendar is
postponed to a day certain such measure shall be considered on said day
to which postponed whether or not it
appears upon the calendar of said
day.
II. OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
OF COUNCIL
Rule 9. Presiding Officer. The
President of Council, and in his
absence the President of Council pro
tempore, shall preside over the meetings of the Council. In the absence of
the President of Council the City
Clerk shall call the Council to order;
and if, after the roll call is called a
quorum shall be present, the Council
shall choose one of its members
President of Council pro tempore, who
shall preside until the President of
Council appears, but in no event
beyond such meeting, and shall discharge all the duties and be clothed
with all the powers of the President of
Council as such presiding officer during his absence. The presiding officer
shall call all meetings of the Council
to order at the hour appointed and
shall proceed with the order of business. If a quorum be present he shall
give the members an opportunity for
correcting the journal of the previous
meeting, a copy of which shall be
placed on the desk of each member of
the Council. In the absence of any
objections or corrections the minutes
shall stand approved. He shall preserve order and decorum, prevent personalities or the impugning of members’ motives, confine members in
debate to the question under discussion, shall decide all points of order
subject to an appeal to the Council,
and shall appoint all standing committees and such select committees as
may be authorized by Council from
time to time, except in those cases
where the resolution authorizing
such select committees specifically
names the membership thereof.
Rule 10. Members Presiding. The
President of the Council during any
meeting thereof may name any
member to perform the duties of the
chair; but such substitution shall not
extend beyond such meeting.
Rule 11. The Vote Necessary for
Election of President, Clerk and
Other Employees of Council. No candidate for President or Clerk of
Council shall be declared elected
unless he shall have received a
majority vote of all members elected to Council and no person shall be
employed by this Council except
pursuant to a majority vote of all
the members elected to Council. No
vacancy which Council is authorized
to fill shall be filled except pursuant to majority vote of all members elected to Council.
Rule 11-1. Roll Call upon Election
of
President,
Clerk
and
Other
Employees of Council, and Filling
Vacancies in the Membership of
Council. Upon the roll call for the
election of President of Council,
Clerk of Council or employee of
Council, or for filling any vacancy
in the membership of Council, each
member shall respond by stating the
name of the candidate of his choice

6

January 4, 2006
eligible for such office or appointment, which candidate shall not be
required to be a person duly nominated and whose nomination has
been duly seconded, provided, however, that no members shall be
excused from voting thereon except
by unanimous consent.
Rule 12. The City Clerk. The
Council shall choose a clerk and
such other officers and employee as
may be deemed necessary and fix
their compensation. The clerk shall
keep the record of the Council, and
the clerk shall be the editor of the
City Record. The clerk shall keep a
proper file of all papers and documents which are a part of the transactions of the Council, of meetings
of committees and all orders of the
Council,
and
shall
make
such
records available to the public. The
Clerk shall be secretary to all committees, but may assign an assistant
as secretary to any committee.
When directed by any committee the
clerk shall cause to be kept minutes
of each meeting of such committee
that shall be kept in record form
and be made available for public
inspection. The record of committee
meetings may be kept in the form
of loose sheet records and need not
be printed in the City Record nor
copied in any other book, except
that the clerk shall cause to be
printed in the City Record attendance roll calls of committee meetings. In addition, the clerk shall
report to Council the absence of
members from Council meetings and
shall perform such other and further
duties as may from time to time by
Charter, statute or ordinance be
required of the clerk. The City
Clerk, as editor of the City Record,
shall see that the following rules
are observed in the preparation and
introduction of ordinances and resolutions and in the editing and printing of the City Record:
(a) The title of all ordinances and
resolutions shall be confined to a
brief statement of the subject matter of the bill and shall be printed
in bold face type.
(b) Preambles or “whereases” in
ordinances and resolutions shall be
restricted to one emergency preamble required by the Charter, except
where a whereas is an essential
part of the ordinance or resolution.
(c) Ordinances of a general or
permanent nature shall, in their
preparation be divided into short
sections, wherever practicable, in
order to permit amendments being
made without printing so much of
the original ordinance.
(d) The practice of introducing
resolutions of condolence and congratulatory resolutions shall be discontinued except in the case of the
death of outstanding citizens or
occasion of great civic importance.
In lieu of such resolution of condolence the Clerk shall have prepared
a suitable memorial which shall be
sent to the relatives of the deceased
and the City Record shall contain
the request of the member of Council for such memorial and the fact
that such memorial has been sent.
(e) The minutes and proceedings
of administrative boards shall be
prepared in abstract form and be
printed in six-(6) point type in the
City Record.

January 4, 2006
(f) Once each year there shall be
prepared for distribution or printed
in the City Record a cumulative subject index covering the proceedings
of the Council.
Rule 13. Sergeant-at-arms. The
Council shall appoint a sergeant-atarms who shall be in attendance at
all
meetings
of
Council.
The
sergeant-at-arms under the direction
of the presiding officer shall preserve order in the Council chamber
and adjoining rooms, and in the
manner to be prescribed by ordinance shall compel the attendance
of absent members.
III. COMMITTEES OF COUNCIL
Rule 14. Standing Committees. Not
later than the fourth meeting of the
Council after its organization, the
President of Council shall appoint
one (1) standing committee of eleven
members; four (4) standing committees of nine (9) members each; and
six (6) standing committees of seven
(7) members each of whom the first
named members shall be chairmen
and the second named shall be vicechairmen. All committee appointments, made under this Rule, including that of chairman and vice-chairman, the vice-chairman shall preside
until the chairman appear, and shall
discharge all the duties and be
clothed with all the powers of the
chairman during such absence. In
the absence of the chairman and the
vice-chairman and a quorum being
present, a temporary chairman shall
be selected by a majority vote of the
members present who shall preside
until the chairman or vice-chairman
appears and he shall discharge all
the duties and be clothed with all the
powers of the chairman during such
absence.
The eleven member committee and
its subject matter is as follows:
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, to
which shall be referred all ordinances, resolutions and other matters pertaining to finances, indebtedness, appropriations, the payment
of moneys not provided for by previous legislation, taxation and all
matters pertaining to the Departments of Finance, Law and Personnel, the standardization of salaries
and wages, union agreements, civil
service, the pensioning of employees
and the sale, lease or purchase of
real estate.
The nine member committees and
the subject matters that shall be
referred to them shall be as follows:
A.
COMMITTEE
ON
PUBLIC
UTILITIES, to which are referred
all ordinances, resolutions and other
matters pertaining to the City’s
water
supply,
sewage
disposal,
municipal electrical light plant and
all matters pertaining to the Department of Public Utilities, and all ordinances, resolutions and other matters pertaining to telecommunications, rates to be paid by the City
to the public utility for street lighting or other utility services and to
existing
or
proposed
franchises
including railway and railroad operations and the Regional Sewer District.

The City Record
B. COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SERVICE, to which shall be referred all
ordinances, resolutions and other
matters pertaining to streets and
street
uses,
street
and
sewer
improvements,
switch
track
and
pipe lines, elimination of grade
crossings, street cleaning, waste collection and disposal, bridges and
underpasses, taxes and assessments
for sidewalks and street improvements, all banners across streets
and all matters pertaining to the
Department of Public Service.
C. COMMITTEE ON COMMUNITY
AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT,
to which shall be referred all ordinances, resolutions and other matters pertaining to the redevelopment
of blighted areas, the rehabilitation
and conservation of property, the
alleviation of the housing shortage
and alum clearance, economic and
industrial development, the Land
Reutilization Program and all matters relating to the Departments of
Community Development and Economic Development.
D.
COMMITTEE
ON
PUBLIC
SAFETY, to which shall be referred
all ordinances, resolutions and other
matters pertaining to police, fire,
and emergency medical services and
matters pertaining to the Boxing
and Wrestling Commission, to the
enforcement of the traffic code and
off street parking and to inspection
of buildings, and all matters pertaining to the Department of Public
Safety, and to tag days.
The seven member committees
and the subject matters that shall
be referred to them shall be as follows:
A. COMMITTEE ON CITY PLANNING, to which shall be referred all
ordinances. resolutions and other
matters relating to city planning,
the City Planning Commission and
matters relating to zoning.
B.
COMMITTEE
ON
HEALTH
AND HUMAN SERVICES, to which
shall be referred all ordinances, resolutions and other matters pertaining to public health, public charities, direct and work relief, city correctional and charitable institutions;
and all matters pertaining to the
Departments of Public Health and
Welfare,
Human
Resources
and
Aging, and all matters pertaining to
health, sanitation, unemployment,
job training, air pollution control,
lake and river pollution, smoke
abatement and nuisances.
C. COMMITTEE ON LEGISLATION, to which shall be referred all
ordinances, resolutions and other
matters pertaining to county, state
and federal legislation affecting the
city annexations, redistricting, charter amendments and all initiative,
referendum and recall petitions; all
matters relating to courts; ordinances relating to licenses and
those imposing fines, penalties, forfeitures or imprisonment, printing
and advertising.
D. COMMITTEE ON AVIATION
AND TRANSPORTATION, to which
shall be referred all ordinances, resolutions and other matters pertain-

7

7
ing to the municipally-owned airports and any and all matters concerning aviation; and all ordinances,
resolutions and other matters pertaining to bridges, harbors, river
and lake travel, public transportation and bus, limousine and taxicab
operations and all matters pertaining to the Department of Port Control, the Regional Transit Authority
and the Port Authority.
E.
COMMITTEE
ON
PUBLIC
PARKS, PROPERTY AND RECREATION, to which shall be referred
all ordinances, resolutions and other
matters pertaining to public parks,
public
places,
public
recreation,
playgrounds and public beaches; to
all public buildings not specifically
related to or belonging to some
department or division, including
the City Hall, Public Auditorium,
the Public Stadium, the city markets, and golf courses and cemeteries; to the purchase or sale of all
property not specifically referred to
another committee of this Council
except
for
the
Committee
on
Finance, and all matters pertaining
to the Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
F. COMMITTEE ON EMPLOYMENT,
AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION
AND TRAINING, to which shall be
referred all ordinances, resolutions
and other matters pertaining to the
formulation and monitoring of job
participation linkage for publicly
funded development projects; the
oversight of affirmative action policies, certification of minority and
female business enterprises, and
contract compliance within the affirmative action goals of the City; and
the formulation of job training policies and performance monitoring of
job training contracts.
Rule 14-1. Removal of Members
from Committees, i.e., The President
of Council, may for cause, at any
time, remove and replace any member or members of any standing
committee established under Rule 14
or from any special committee or
committees.
Rule 15a. Committee Meetings. A
majority of the members of a committee shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business. Each
committee shall hold its regular
meetings at the time and place fixed
in the schedule, as prepared by the
President of Council and Clerk of
Council in conference with the
chairman of the several committees.
Such schedule shall be approved by
the Council and be posted upon the
bulletin board in the office of the
clerk. Should the chairman of a committee find it necessary to hold the
meeting at another time and place,
the chairman shall cause notice
thereof to be given on the bulletin
board at least twenty-four (24)
hours before the new time fixed for
the meeting. All committee meetings
shall be open and a record of the
attendance of members of the committee and the action taken there at
shall be kept by the secretary of the
committee in a record provided for
that purpose. Such record shall be
kept on file with the Clerk of Council and open to public inspection as
other public records. No legislation

8
shall be amended while in committee and it shall be the duty of the
committee to recommend to Council
the approval, disapproval or amendment of any legislation pending
before the committee. A majority of
the members of a committee shall be
necessary for the recommendation
of approval, disapproval or amendment of any legislation pending
before
a
committee.
All
other
motions shall require only a majority vote of the members of committee present.
Rule 15b. Each absence of a committee member, not authorized by
the chairman for good cause, or the
absence of the chairman, not authorized by the president of Council for
good cause, shall be deemed a violation of the Rules of Council under
Section 29 of the Charter, punishable
by a fine of one hundred dollars
($100.00)
for
each
unauthorized
absence. For the purpose of this Subsection 15(b), but not for purposes
of voting on recommendations to
legislation, a committee member or
chairman
thereof
shall
also
be
deemed absent if a committee member or chairman reports to the committee meeting later than fifteen
(15) minutes after the scheduled
time for the commencement of said
meeting or when after the commencement of said meeting leaves
the meeting, except in case of necessity or emergency, without the
authority of the chairman, vicechairman
or
acting
chairman.
Absence of a member of a committee from three (3) consecutive meetings, unless authorized by the chairman of such committee, may upon
the recommendation of such committee cause the removal of such
member from such committee by the
President of Council.
Rule 15c. Seats at the table in the
committee room shall be reserved
for members of the committee, the
Mayor and administrative officials
having business before the committee, members of Council not members
of
the
committee,
persons
specifically invited by the chairman
or by a vote of the committee,
reporters, representatives of civic
organizations
and
of
organized
labor, and it shall be the duty of the
clerk of committees to see to it that
the foregoing precedence of seating
is strictly followed.
Rule 15d. Rules of Committees.
Except in case of obvious inconsistency or inapplicability committee
hearings shall be governed by the
rules applicable to council proceedings.
Rule 16. Reports. No ordinance,
resolution, petition, or other matters
referred to a committee for action
shall be approved or disapproved
and reported out until it shall have
first been considered at a committee
meeting regularly called as provided for herein and no committee shall
consider or hold a hearing on any
proposed legislation until it has
been introduced in Council and
referred to the committee. The chairman upon motion of any member
that shall not require a second shall
put the question of the recommen-

The City Record
dation of approval or of approval
when amended. If a majority of the
members of the committee vote
affirmatively such legislation shall
be reported forthwith to Council as
recommended for passage, but if a
majority of the members of the committee vote negatively on such question such legislation shall be reported forthwith to Council as a recommendation of adversal of such legislation. The vote on all matters
before
the
committee
shall
be
recorded in the minutes of the committee meeting. When a majority of
a committee has reported, recommending or not recommending the
passage, adoption or approval of the
legislation under consideration, the
minority may present a minority
report. All such reports shall be in
writing and signed by the members
of the committee voting in favor of
or against the report.
Rule 16-1. Undisposed of Legislation Pending in Committees. Legislation which at the date of the first
Monday in January following a regular municipal election has not been
acted upon by the committee or committees to which referred within the
period of two years from the date of
introduction in Council shall be
deemed not recommended by said
committee or committees and without objection shall be laid upon the
table at the next regular meeting of
Council thereafter.
Rule 17. Committee of the Whole.
Upon motion that without objection
of the Council resolve itself into a
committee of the whole for the purpose of hearing from a person who
is not a member of the Council, or
for the purpose of considering business generally, the Council shall
resolve itself into a committee of
the whole for the purpose stated in
the motion.
When the Council shall decide to
go into committee of the whole,
without objection the regular officers shall continue to serve, otherwise the Council shall appoint a
Chairman to preside, and the presiding officer of the Council shall
leave the chair. The rules of Council, in so far as practicable, shall be
observed in the committee of the
whole except that no limit shall be
placed on the frequency of speaking, that the ayes and nays shall not
be taken, and that a motion to rise
and report progress shall always be
in order and shall be decided without debate.
Rule 17-1. Joint Committee. When
it is desired that legislation shall be
considered by two or more standing
committees jointly, a reference may
be made by the President of Council to a joint committee composed of
the membership of said standing
committees, which shall operate as
a single committee. A quorum of a
joint committee shall consist of a
majority of the members thereof
counting membership in each committee separately so that a member
of each or two or more committees
constituting such joint committee
shall be counted once for each committee on which he/she is a member.
A
majority
vote,
similarly
counted, shall be required for action
by such joint committee. The Presi-

8

January 4, 2006
dent of Council shall determine the
chairman of the joint committee
from the chairmen of the standing
committees that make up the joint
committee.
Rule 17-2. Subcommittee. When
determined to be in furtherance of
the legislative process, the chairman
of a standing committee and the
President of Council may designate
certain members of said standing
committee to form a subcommittee
thereof for the purpose of examining
such matters as are identified by the
chairman and President at the time
the subcommittee is formed. At the
completion of its work, the subcommittee shall report its findings to the
entire standing committee or, in the
discretion of the President of Council, the entire Council.
IV. DUTIES, PRIVILEGES AND
DECORUM OF MEMBERS
Rule 18. Roll Call of Council.
Every member shall be in his seat
at the time of roll call, otherwise he
shall not be recorded as present
except upon special order of Council. The clerk shall publish in the
City Record the names of the members present and absent.
Rule 19. Duty to Vote. Every member present shall vote on all questions upon the call of the yeas, and
nays, unless excused by the unanimous consent of the Council; except
that no member shall vote on any
question in which he is financially
interested or which in any way
involves personal or private rights.
Any member present, unless so
excused, or excepted as above, who
refuses to vote upon any question
relating to the city government,
upon which he may vote, when the
yeas and nays are being taken shall
be guilty of contempt of the Council, and may, for such contempt, be
censured by a majority vote of the
Council or may be expelled from the
Council by a vote of two-thirds of
all the members of the Council
Rule 20. Yeas and Nays. On the
passage of every ordinance or resolution and on the appointment of
every officer the vote shall be taken
by yeas and nays, entered in full
upon the records and published in
the official journal. On any other
question the yeas and nays shall be
entered upon the records on the
request of any member. Upon the
call of the yeas and nays the clerk
shall call the names of members
alphabetically and record the vote.
Rule 21. Change of Vote. Before
the announcement of the vote on
any question the clerk shall read
the vote of each member so taken
upon the demand of any member, at
which time any councilman on
account of error or for any other
reason may change his vote; but no
councilman shall be permitted to
change his vote as recorded after
the roll call has been verified and
the result declared.
Rule 22. Recording of Vote of
Absent Member. Any member, having
been unavoidably absent, may at the
next meeting be permitted to have

January 4, 2006
his vote recorded upon any question
acted upon during such absence; provided such vote shall not change the
result; and provided further that
such member shall not be entitled to
move a reconsideration of the question to be voted upon.
Rule 23. Right of Floor. When any
member is about to address the
Council he shall rise from his seat
and respectfully address himself to
the presiding officer, and when recognized by the chair shall confine
himself
to
the
question
under
debate,
avoid
personalities
and
refrain from impugning the motives
of any other member’s argument or
vote. When two or more members
ask recognition at the same time,
the presiding officer shall name the
member who is first to speak and
the exercise of such discretion by
the presiding officer shall not be
subject to appeal under Rule 26.
Rule
24.
Time
Limitation
of
Speaking.
No
member
shall
be
allowed to speak for a longer time
than 4 minutes at any one time
without the permission of Council.
No member shall speak more than
once on the same legislation until
every other member desiring to
speak on that legislation shall have
had an opportunity to do so.
Nor shall neither the Mayor nor
any director speak longer than 4
minutes upon the same motion, ordinance or question without the consent of Council.
Rule 25. Members Called to Order.
If any member in speaking or otherwise transgresses the rules of the
Council the president shall call the
offending member to order. The
member so called to order shall
immediately take his seat unless
permitted
by
the
president
to
explain. Any member may, by raising the point of order, call the attention of the president to such transgression.
The
president
without
debate shall decide the point of
order. Every such decision of the
president shall be subject to appeal
to the Council by any two members.
Rule
26. Right of Appeal. Any
member may appeal to the Council
from a ruling of the presiding officer, the member making the appeal
may briefly state his reason for the
same, and the presiding officer may
briefly explain his ruling; but there
shall be no debate on the appeal and
no other member shall participate in
the discussion. The presiding officer
shall then put the question, “Shall
the decision of the chair be sustained?” If a majority of the members present vote aye, the ruling of
the chair is sustained; otherwise it
is overruled.
Rule 27. Member May Read from
Books, etc. Any member while discussing a question, may read from
books, papers or documents, any
matter pertinent to the subject
under consideration without asking
leave; provided, however, that such
reading shall be subject to and
included within the time limitation
prescribed in Rule 24.
Rule 28. Division of Question. If
the question contains two or more
divisible propositions, the presiding

The City Record
officer may, and upon request of a
member, shall divide the same; but a
motion to strike out a provision and
insert a substitute is not divisible.
Rule 29. Personal Privilege. Any
member may rise to explain a matter personal to him, and on stating
that it is a matter of personal privilege, the member shall be recognized by tbe president, but shall not
discuss a question or issue in such
explanation. Such explanation shall
not consume more than 2 minutes of
time unless extended by consent of
the Council. Matters of personal
privilege shall yield only to a
motion to recess or adjourn.
Rule 30. No Person, Other Than
the Clerk and His Assistants Shall
Be Permitted at the Clerk’s Desk
While the Yeas and Nays are Being
Taken. No person other than the
clerk and his assistants shall be permitted at the clerk’s desk while the
yeas and nays are being taken.
V. MOTIONS
Rule
31.
Purpose
and
Form.
Motions shall be used only to expedite the orderly transaction at the
business of Council and shall not be
substituted for resolutions or ordinances. The form of all motions
shall be “I move that” followed by
the substance of the motion. No second shall be required for any motion
except as specifically provided for
in a rule, but upon demand of any
member any motion shall be withdrawn by the maker before it has
been amended or voted upon. When
a motion is made the presiding officer shall state it before any debate
shall be in order. All motions that
have been entertained by the President of Council shall be entered
upon the minutes.
Rule 32. Precedence of Motions.
When a question is before the council no motion shall be entertained
except the following:
1. To adjourn.
2. To fix the hour of adjournment.
3. For the previous question.
4. To lay on the table.
5. To postpone to a day certain.
6. To postpone indefinitely.
7. To refer to a committee.
8. To amend.
These motions shall have precedence in the order indicated. The
motion to adjourn and the motion
for the previous question, shall be
put to a vote without debate; the
motion to fix the hour of adjournment shall be debatable only as to
the time of such adjournment; and
all other motions shall be debatable.
Rule 33. The Previous Question.
The motion for the previous question shall require a majority vote of
all members elected to Council; shall
be considered only once; may be
renewed after intervening business;
shall take precedence over all debatable questions and shall be in order
to prevent amendment of undebatable questions. When the previous
question is moved and seconded by
one other member it shall be put as
follows: “Shall the main question be
now put?” There shall be no further
amendment or debate but pending

9

9
amendments shall be put in their
order before the main question. If
the question, “Shall the main question be now put?” be decided in the
negative the main question remains
before the Council.
Rule 34. Motion to Lay on the
Table. The motion to lay on the
table shall dispose finally of the legislation against which it is invoked
but a motion to lay a pending
amendment to an ordinance or resolution shall not carry the ordinance
or resolution with it. Motion to lay
on the table shall require a majority vote of all members elected to
Council.
Rule 35. Motion to Postpone to a
Day Certain. A motion to postpone
to a day certain shall require a
majority vote of the members present; shall be subject to reconsideration; may be renewed after intervening business; shall be debatable
as to the propriety of the postponement but not upon the merits of the
legislation; and may be amended by
changing the date. Upon the arrival
of the date to which postponed the
legislation shall be considered in
the regular order of business of that
day.
Rule 36. Motion to Postpone Indefinitely. The motion to postpone
indefinitely shall have the same
effect as motion to lay on the table,
and shall require a majority vote of
all members elected to Council.
Motion to postpone indefinitely shall
not be reconsidered; shall be debatable and shall open the legislation
to debate; may be renewed after
intervening business and may not
be amended or laid on the table, and
shall be subject to previous question.
Rule 37. Reconsideration. After
the decision of any question any
member who voted with the majority may move a reconsideration of
any action at the same or the next
succeeding meeting, provided, however, that a resolution authorizing
or relating to any contract may be
reconsidered at any time before the
final execution thereof. A motion to
reconsider shall require a majority
vote of all the members elected to
Council. After a motion for reconsideration has once been acted upon,
no other motion for a reconsideration thereof shall be made without
unanimous consent of the members
present.
VI. ORDINANCES AND
RESOLUTIONS
Note: “The adoption of a resolution is the proper procedure for an
informal enactment providing for
the disposition of a particular item
of business, while the passage of an
ordinance is the proper procedure
for the enactment of a regulation of
a general or permanent nature.” (19
R.C. L. 895; 46 C.J. 519; 29 O.A. 386).
Rule 38. Introduction. Ordinances
and resolutions shall be introduced
in the Council only in printed or
written form, with the name of the
member
introducing
the
same
endorsed thereon. No ordinance or

10
resolution affecting the zoning regulations or the construction of public improvements within a particular
ward shall be introduced in Council
in the name of the member of Council from such ward except with his
written permission prior to such
introduction and when his name
shall be following by the words “By
departmental request”, which shall
be deemed not to imply agreement
with the purpose of such legislation
by reason of such sponsorship. Ordinances submitted by the initiative
shall have endorsed thereon “Submitted by Initiative Petition”.
Rule 38-1. Preparation of Legislation. In order that adequate time
may be given to the preparation of
legislation,
members
of
Council
shall present requests for legislation
to the Law Department not later
than 5:00 o’clock P.M. on the Friday
preceding the meeting at which
such legislation is to be introduced
for first reading, and not later than
5:00 o’clock P.M. of the Wednesday
preceding introduction of legislation
for passage under suspension of the
rules.
Rule 38-2. Request Legislation. All
legislation shall have indicated at
the end thereof the date of preparation and the initials of the draftsman and typist; and all legislation
originating in administrative departments shall contain in addition
thereto the name of the head of the
department or division for whom
prepared and the name of the member of Council introducing such legislation shall be followed by the
words “By request” in parentheses.
Rule 38-3. Request Legislation for
Passage Under Suspension of the
Rules. The Clerk of Council shall
not accept request legislation for
passage on introduction under suspension of the rules unless furnished sufficient copies of such legislation to provide each member of
Council therewith, together with a
like number of copies of a statement
by the Director of the requesting
department setting forth the reasons
requiring
the
immediate
action
thereon.
Request legislation for passage on
introduction under suspension of the
rules at the last meeting prior to the
Summer recess of Council or at the
final meeting of Council in any odd
numbered year shall not be accepted by the Clerk of Council unless
the required statement bears the recommendation of the Mayor and the
approval of the President of Council. To the extent that circumstances
permit all such legislation shall be
considered informally by at least
one committee of Council, to which
such legislation would otherwise be
referred.
Rule 39. Form of Ordinances. The
enacting clause of all ordinances
shall be “Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland.” except
those submitted by Initiative petition, which shall be “Be it ordained
by the people of the City of Cleveland.” All ordinances before introduction shall be in typewritten form,
with two additional copies, on the
forms to be provided by the City

The City Record

January 4, 2006

Clerk. No ordinance or resolution or
section thereof shall be revised or
amended unless the new ordinance
or resolution contain the entire ordinance
or
resolution,
or
section
revised or amended, and the original ordinance, resolution, section, or
sections
so
amended
shall
be
repealed.

Rule 42-1. Relieving Committees.
Any committee to which an ordinance
or
resolution
has
been
referred under Rule 41 or re-referred
under Rule 41-1 may be relieved of
further consideration of such legislation by a motion duly made and
adopted by a two-thirds vote of all
members elected to Council.

Rule 40. Emergency Ordinances. If
any emergency ordinance or resolution fails to receive a two-thirds
affirmative vote of all members
elected to Council, such measure
shall cease to be before the Council
as an emergency measure and shall
have the standing that a measure
would have had if it had not been
read as an emergency measure.

Rule 43. Three Readings. No ordinance or resolution shall be passed
until it has been read on three separate days; unless the reading on
three separate days has been dispensed with by a two-thirds vote of
all members elected to Council. The
final reading shall be in full unless
a written or printed copy of the
measure shall have been furnished
to each member of the Council prior
to such reading. Copies of all first
reading ordinances and resolutions
to be introduced for passage and
adoption under suspension of the
rules and without reading on three
separate days shall be delivered to
each member of the Council either
by messenger or mail addressed to
his mailing address, so that such
copy or copies shall be in his hands
or at his mailing address at least
twenty-four (24) hours prior to the
date of introduction. No motion to
suspend the rules shall be entertained unless the member making
such motion or the Director of the
department involved sets the reason
for the suspension forth. When it is
desired to suspend this and rule 41
in order to permit the passage of
legislation upon introduction the
question on the motion for such suspension shall be as follows: “Shall
the Charter and statutory provisions
and rule 43 requiring reading on
three separate days and rule 41
requiring reference to committees be
dispensed with and Ordinance No. ...
(Resolution No. ...) be placed on
final passage?” If two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council vote
aye the Charter, statutory and rule
requirements requiring reading on
three separate days and reference to
committees shall be suspended.
As an exception to the foregoing,
resolutions of condolence and congratulatory resolutions, copies of
which have been placed upon the
desks of the members prior to the
meeting, shall be read by title only
and adopted viva voce or by rising
vote.

Rule 41. Reference to Committee.
All ordinances and resolutions shall
be read by title on the day when
introduced, unless such reading is
dispensed with by a two-thirds vote;
and unless otherwise ordered by the
Council shall be referred by the presiding officer to the appropriate
committee or committees, which reference shall be announced forthwith
by the clerk. The committee or committees to which so referred shall,
after due consideration and at least
one public proposed amendments
and
with
recommendations
for
approval or disapproval. When so
reported such ordinance or resolution shall, unless otherwise ordered,
be read a second time and laid over
until the next meeting of the Council, when the same shall be read a
third time and a vote taken thereon. The Council shall act upon no
ordinance or resolution except a resolution of condolence or one of an
extreme emergency nature, until it
has been referred to and reported
upon by a committee or committees
of Council.
Rule 41-1. Re-reference to Committee.
Any
pending
legislation
may, by a vote of a majority of the
members elected to Council, be
referred to any committee to which
previously
referred
under
these
rules, or to any appropriate committee designated in the motion to
re-refer. When referred back to the
Council such legislation shall have
the same standing as it had at the
time when re-referred.
Rule 42. Reference to More Than
One Committee. Whenever any pending matter is referred to more than
one committee for consideration and
report, said committee may consider
the same in joint session as a joint
committee, if the chairmen of the
committees concerned consent thereto. The chairman of the committee
first named shall preside at such
joint sessions, and each member of
the joint committee shall have one
vote for each committee of which
he/she is a member composing the
joint committee. A majority of the
members of each of the separate committees shall constitute a quorum of
such committee and the vote shall be
taken by roll call of each of the separate committees constituting the
joint committee. Its report shall be
made in the same manner and under
the same rules as reports are made
by standing committees.

10

Rule 43-A. When Mimeographed
Copy Required for Suspension of
Rule 43. No ordinance of a general
nature or imposing penalties which
has not been referred to a committee of Council shall be passed under
suspension of the rules unless a
mimeographed copy of such ordinance shall have been placed on the
desk of each member prior to the
passage of such ordinance under
suspension of Rule 43.
Rule 44. Appropriation Ordinances.
Ordinances making appropriations
shall be confined to the subject of
appropriation. No money shall be
appropriated except by ordinance.
All ordinances for fixing a tax rate,
the appropriation of money, the
issuance of bonds, the transfer of
money to any fund, or the payment
of claims; and all resolutions and

January 4, 2006
ordinances whereby the city shall
become liable for the payment of
any money, shall be referred without debate to the finance committee
for consideration and report; unless
this requirement shall be suspended
by two-thirds of all the members
elected. The vote of each suspension
shall be taken by yeas and nays and
entered on the record.
Rule 45. Substitute Legislation.
Legislation dealing with the same
subject matter may be substituted
for any pending ordinance or resolution by a majority vote of all the
members elected to Council, upon
the recommendation of any committee to which such legislation has
been referred. Substitute legislation
shall be subject to all the provisions
of the Charter and rules applying to
ordinances on first reading, and the
legislation for which such substitute
is offered shall be laid upon the
table as a final disposition thereof.
Before accepting for introduction
any substitute legislation the author
of the original legislation shall be
given notice thereof by the Clerk of
Council.
Rule 46. Ordinances Fixing Fines
and Penalties. All ordinances imposing fines, penalties, forfeiture or
imprisonment shall be referred to
the committee on legislation, and
the director of law shall be asked
to give an opinion thereon.
Rule 47. Amendments. It shall be
in order to amend an ordinance at
any time when not in the hands of
a committee; but if amended after
its second reading it shall again be
read as the second reading thereof,
and laid over for further and final
action. A majority vote of all the
members elected to Council shall be
necessary for the adoption of an
amendment to any legislation pending before the Council.
Rule 48. Adoption. All ordinances
and resolutions shall require for
passage or adoption a majority vote
of all the members elected. The vote
on their adoption shall be taken by
yeas and nays and entered on the
records of the meeting except as
otherwise provided in these rules.
Rule 49. Signing Ordinances and
Resolutions. All ordinances passed
and resolutions adopted by Council
shall be signed by the President and
presented forthwith to the Mayor by
the clerk.
Rule 50. Action on Mayor’s Veto.
When the Mayor refuses to sign an
ordinance or resolution or part
thereof and returns such ordinance
or resolution to the Council with his
objections, the Council shall at the
next meeting following the meeting
at which such vetoed ordinance or
resolution is returned, if such meeting shall occur not less than one (1)
week after receipt of such ordinance
or resolution, proceed to reconsider
the same. After the adoption of the
motion so to reconsider, the question
shall be stated as follows: “Shall
Ordinance No. (Resolution No.) be
passed (or adopted) notwithstanding the veto of the Mayor? Those
voting aye vote to override the
Mayor’s veto. Those voting nay vote
to sustain the Mayor’s veto.” If two-

The City Record

11

thirds of all the members elected to
Council vote aye such ordinance or
resolution vetoed by the Mayor shall
take effect without his signature.

member of Council adopted by a
majority vote of all the members
present. Such request shall be filed
with the Clerk of Council.

VII. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS

Rule 52-2. Mutilation of Legislation. No alteration, change, erasure
or mark shall be made upon any
piece of legislation by any person
except the Clerk of Council and then
only pursuant to an amendment
thereto made by Council pursuant to
Rule 47. Nothing shall be physically
attached to any piece of legislation
after introduction thereof except the
fiscal certificate required by Section
106 of the Charter nor shall any
endorsement appear upon any legislation except that of the head of the
department
or
office
to
which
referred or the person duly authorized by such head. Reports of subordinates to the heads of departments or other pertinent data or
reports may be filed with such legislation if referred to in the official
reports endorsed upon the back of
such piece of legislation.

Rule 51. Attendance Required. The
Mayor, the directors of all departments and the chairman of the transit board shall be required to attend
the regular and special meeting of
Council and shall be provided with
seats on the floor of the Council.
They shall be required, at any such
meeting, to answer such questions
relating to the affairs of the city
under their respective supervision
and control as may be put to them
by any member of the Council. The
Mayor shall be entitled to take part
in the discussion on all questions
before the Council. The directors
and chairman of the transit board
shall be entitled to take part in the
discussion on all questions relating
only to their respective departments.
Rule 52. Reports of City Officers.
All ordinances, resolutions and communications pertaining to matters
that come under the supervision and
control of the Mayor, directors of
departments and chairman of the
Transit Board shall, in addition to
being referred to the proper committees, be also referred to such
respective
administrative
officers
for recommendation and report. Not
later than thirty (30) days after reference to the administrative officer
or officers as the case may be each
ordinance, resolution, or communication so referred shall be returned
to the Clerk of Council with the
endorsement of each such administrative officer’s approval or disapproval of such matter so referred. It
shall be the duty of the Clerk of
Council to enforce this rule rigidly.
The Clerk shall use all diligence in
seeing that departments to which
measures are referred return them
to the Clerk’s office within the time
fixed herein.
Rule 52-1. Mandatory Referral of
Legislation. Mandatory referral of
legislation under Section 76-3 of the
Charter shall be deemed to include
the following matters:
1. Zoning or other regulations of
land use.
2. Acquisition or lease of land for
public uses.
3. Sale or lease of publicly owned
lands.
4.
Vacation
or
dedication
of
streets or alleys.
5. Street widening or street extensions.
6. Permits for private uses of
streets or public property.
7. Determining to proceed with
public improvements.
8. Requests for studies or plan
preparation.
9. Bond issues for capital improvements.
10. Housing.
Request for an additional thirty
(30) day period for further consideration may be granted by the President of Council if the application
for such extension is submitted to
him before the expiration of the
thirty (30) day period allowed by
Section 76-3 of the Charter. No further extension of time shall be
allowed except upon motion of a

11

Rule 53. Report or Status of Pending Measures. The City Clerk shall
keep
the
members
of
Council
informed regarding the status of
pending ordinances. All ordinances
and resolutions to be acted upon by
committees or the Council on Monday shall be in the hands of the
Clerk not later than the preceding
Friday at 11:00 A.M.
Rule 54. Approval of Council of
Appointments by Mayor. Whenever
the approval of Council is required
for appointments by the Mayor the
President of Council, upon request
of the Mayor for approval of any
appointment, shall forthwith appoint
a select committee of five (5) members to which shall be referred the
name of each person whose appointment is submitted for approval of
Council. Not later than the second
meeting of Council following such
reference, the select committee shall
report to Council its recommendation thereon. Thereupon Council as
part of the appropriate order of business shall proceed to vote upon the
approval of each appointment; the
question being “Shall the Council
approve the appointment by the
Mayor?” If a majority of all the
members elected to Council vote
aye, the Council shall approve such
appointment.
VIII. COUNCIL CHAMBER
Rule 55. Use of Council Chamber.
The Council chamber shall be used
only for meetings of the Council or
committees thereof, except where
the Council by vote authorizes its
use by persons other than city officials. The clerk, with the written
approval of the President of Council, may permit other public officials
to use the Council chamber on public business, when not in use by the
Council or committees.
Rule 56. Privileges of Floor. No
person except members or former
members of the Council, officers
named in the rules, reporters and
persons invited by the President of
Council or by vote of the Council
shall be admitted within the bar of
the
Council
chamber,
and
the
sergeant-at-arms shall cause this
rule to be rigidly enforced.

The City Record

12
BOARD OF CONTROL
December 28, 2005
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, December 28,
2005, at 10:30 a.m. with Mayor Campbell presiding.
Present: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Directors Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director
Savas,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors
Nemeth, Smith, Director Thompson,
Acting Director Wilbur, Directors
Huth, Fumich, Taylor and Acting
Director Cooper.
Absent: Director Routen.
Others: Jim Hardy, Commissioner,
Purchases and Supplies.
E. Nunez, Commissioner, Office of
Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 738-05.
By Director Baker.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that under
Section 101 of the Charter, Section
181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and Resolution No. 921-52, adopted by the Board
of Control on November 26, 1952, the
report of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for the sale of
scrap, personal property, and byproducts
during
the
month
of
December, 2005 in the amount of
$40,924.25 attached and made a part
of this resolution, is received, approved and ordered filed.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Directors Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director
Savas,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors
Nemeth, Smith, Director Thompson,
Acting Director Wilbur, Directors
Huth, Fumich, Taylor and Acting
Director Cooper.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Routen.
Resolution No. 739-05.
By Director Baker.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that under
Section 101 of the Charter, Section
181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and Resolution No. 921-52, adopted by the
Board of Control on November 26,
1952, the report of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for
the sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products during the
month of December, 2005 in the
amount of $9,208.35 attached and
made a part of this resolution, is
received,
approved
and
ordered
filed.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Directors Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director
Savas,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors
Nemeth, Smith, Director Thompson,
Acting Director Wilbur, Directors
Huth, Fumich, Taylor and Acting
Director Cooper.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Routen.

Resolution No. 740-05.
By Director Baker.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 223-05 passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
March 7, 2003, Board of Control Resolution No. 677-05, adopted December
7, 2005, affirmed and approved BJB
Enterprises, Inc. dba Cuyahoga Siding Windows & Gutters as lowest
and best bidder for the City’s
requirements for an estimated quantity of window washing services for
various divisions of City government, Department of Finance; and
Whereas, BJB Enterprises, Inc.
dba Cuyahoga Siding Windows &
Gutters failed to fulfill the promises made in its bid to furnish a satisfactory performance bond and execute a contract within five (5) days
after notice of an award of contract;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that BJB Enterprises, Inc. dba Cuyahoga Siding Windows & Gutter
which this Board affirmed and approved by Resolution No. 677-05,
adopted December 7, 2005, as lowest
and best bidder for the City’s requirements for an estimated quantity of window washing services, is
declared to be in default of its bid
promises, as result of which its bid
check shall be forfeited to the City
as the agreed amount of liquidated
damages.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Directors Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director
Savas,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors
Nemeth, Smith, Director Thompson,
Acting Director Wilbur, Directors
Huth, Fumich, Taylor and Acting
Director Cooper.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Routen.
Resolution No. 741-05.
By Director Baker.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of All Star Window Cleaning, Inc.
for an estimated quantity of window
washing services, all items, for the
various divisions of City government, for the period of one year
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
November 2, 2005, under the authority of Ordinance No. 223-05 passed
March 7, 2005, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to $144,975.00 (3%, 30 Days),
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Finance is requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of the contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 161274
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $9,950.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent

12

January 4, 2006
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Directors Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director
Savas,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors
Nemeth, Smith, Director Thompson,
Acting Director Wilbur, Directors
Huth, Fumich, Taylor and Acting
Director Cooper.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Routen.
Resolution No. 742-05.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
354-05, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on April 4, 2005,
Creative Works, Inc. is selected
from a list of firms determined after
a full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Utilities as the
firm to be employed by contract to
provide professional services necessary to perform research, writing,
creative design, photography, artwork, layout, preparation of camera
ready artwork, offset lithographic
reproduction and distribute the 2004
and 2005 Annual Reports for the
Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a contract with
Creative Works, Inc. based upon its
proposal dated September 19, 2005,
which contract shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, shall provide
for furnishing of professional services as described in the proposal,
for an aggregate fee not in excess
of $42,730.00, and shall contain such
additional provisions as the Director
of Law deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the following subcontractors to Creative Works, Inc.
for the above-mentioned professional services are approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR
MBE/FBE
Photography by Tony
MBE

WORK

$ 5,000.00
(11.70%)

Vedda & Sons Printing
$ 7,180.00
Andrew Johns, Inc.
$10,700.00
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Directors Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director
Savas,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors
Nemeth, Smith, Director Thompson,
Acting Director Wilbur, Directors
Huth, Fumich, Taylor and Acting
Director Cooper.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Routen.
Resolution No. 743-05.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Board of Control Resolution No. 58204, adopted October 13, 2004, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 2427-

January 4, 2006
03, passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland on February 2, 2004,
approving CH2M Hill, Inc. as the
firm to be employed by contract for
professional services to provide comprehensive financial plans including
cost of service/rate & fee analysis,
for the Divisions of Water and
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, is amended
by
decreasing
the
subcontract
amount for Dingus & Daga, Inc.
(MBE) from $64,457.40 (5.99%) to
$15,958.59 (1.48%), increasing the
subcontract
amount
for
Tucker,
Young, Jackson, Tull, Inc. (MBE)
from $96,058.12 (8.93%) to $144,556.93
(13.44%), and by adding of Cognyst
Consulting, LLC, $44,568.00 (4.14%)
as an approved subcontractor.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
582-04 not expressly amended above
shall remain unchanged and in full
force and effect.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Directors Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director
Savas,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors
Nemeth, Smith, Director Thompson,
Acting Director Wilbur, Directors
Huth, Fumich, Taylor and Acting
Director Cooper.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Routen.
Resolution No. 744-05.
By Director Ciaccia.
Whereas, on July 28, 2005, under
authority of Ordinance No. 2295-04,
passed by the Cleveland City Council on April 18, 2005, and Board of
Control
Resolution
No.
358-05,
adopted July 6, 2005, the City,
through the Director of Public Utilities, entered into Contract No.
64563 with The Ruhlin Company
for the public improvement of the
Nottingham Water Works Plant
Administration Building, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities; and
Whereas, to date, neither the City
nor Ruhlin has commenced performance of the Agreement; and
Whereas, as a result of certain
events occurring since execution of
the Agreement, the City and Ruhlin
individually
and
mutually
have
determined that termination of the
Agreement is in the parties’ individual and mutual best interests and
each desires to terminate the Agreement
immediately,
without
commencing performance and without
liability to or default by either
party; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 358-05, adopted by
this Board July 6, 2005, approving
The Ruhlin Company as lowest
responsible bidder for the public
improvement
of
the
Nottingham
Water Works Plant Administration
Building, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, is
rescinded.
Be it resolved that the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to execute all documents and do all things
necessary to effectuate the termination of Contract No. 64563 as approved above.

The City Record
Be it further resolved that all bids
received on May 13, 2005 for the public improvement of the Nottingham
Water Works Plant Administration
Building, for the Division of Water,
Department
of
Public
Utilities,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
2295-04, passed April 18, 2005, are
rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Directors Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director
Savas,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors
Nemeth, Smith, Director Thompson,
Acting Director Wilbur, Directors
Huth, Fumich, Taylor and Acting
Director Cooper.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Routen.
Resolution No. 745-05.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on December 9,
2005, for the estimated quantity of
labor and materials to repair and
maintain the high voltage static
pipe-type transmission cable system
and for emergency spill cleanup, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, pursuant to the authority Ordinance No. 1014-05 passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
July 13, 2005, be and the same are
hereby rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Directors Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director
Savas,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors
Nemeth, Smith, Director Thompson,
Acting Director Wilbur, Directors
Huth, Fumich, Taylor and Acting
Director Cooper.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Routen.
Resolution No. 746-05.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that the conditional bid of M-B
Companies, Inc. for an estimated
quantity of high speed, multi-function units of snow removal equipment (Item 1), except for such
terms and conditions as are unacceptable to the Director of Law, for
the various divisions of City government, for the period of one year
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on October 21, 2005, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 829-05, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
May 9, 2005, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to $2,718,180 (Net-30), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director
of Public Service is requested to
enter into a requirement contract
for
the
goods
and/or
services,
which shall provide for the immediate
purchase
as
the
initial
amount of the contract of the following:
Requisition No. 160302
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $1,359,090.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor

13

13
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractor by M-B
Companies, Inc. for the above-mentioned purchase is hereby approved:
Oshkosh Truck Corporation
$237,813.00 per unit — 52.49%
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Directors Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director
Savas,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors
Nemeth, Smith, Director Thompson,
Acting Director Wilbur, Directors
Huth, Fumich, Taylor and Acting
Director Cooper.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Routen.
Resolution No. 747-05.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all
bids received on October 21, 2005, for
high
speed,
multi-function
tow
behind broom/blower units of snow
removal equipment (Item 2), for the
various divisions of City government, under the authority of Ordinance No. 829-05, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
May 9, 2005, are rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Directors Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director
Savas,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors
Nemeth, Smith, Director Thompson,
Acting Director Wilbur, Directors
Huth, Fumich, Taylor and Acting
Director Cooper.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Routen.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be estab-

The City Record

14
lished which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance
positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2006
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 05-382: 11601 Shaker
Boulevard (Ward 6)
Patrick Shaker Properties LLC,
owner, and Michael Downing, agent,
appeal to change the use of a former service station site to a use for
an office to be situated on a 223' x
146' corner lot in a Local Retail
Business District on the northeast
corner of Shaker Boulevard and
East 116th Street at 11601 Shaker
Boulevard; the proposed use being
subject to the limitations of Section
343.01(b)(3) for a Local Retail District, where it may not exceed five
persons at any one time, and contrary to Section 357.07(a) a 20' setback is proposed along Shaker
Boulevard where a specific setback
of 21' is required; and Section 352.09
requires an 8' wide transition strip
for separation from a Two-Family
District at the rear north side of the
lot; and a 6' tall fence is proposed,
contrary to the maximum height of
4' for a fence in an actual front
yard of a non-residential district, as
stated in Section 358.05 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-383: 3601 Clinton
Avenue (Ward 13)
Domestic Violence Center, owner,
and Kathy Alexander appeal to construct a 745 square foot addition to
an existing, legal nonconforming
boarding house, situated on a 66' x
185' parcel in a Two-Family District
on the south side of Clinton Avenue
at 3601 Clinton Avenue; as proposed,
the off-street parking provisions are
contrary to Section 349.04(f), being
located in the setback area, blocking access for dumpster pick up and
conflicting with Section 339.02(a),
where accessory parking is not permitted within 10' of a building; and
instead of 28' a front yard depth of
25' is proposed contrary to Section
357.04(a); and the proposed expansion requires the Board of Zoning
Appeals approval according to Section 359.01 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-384 12115 Euclid
Avenue (Ward 9)
Rapid Stop Properties LLC, owner,
and Ibrahim Najjar appeal to construct a 30' x 34' one-story retail

January 4, 2006

store and two service station fuel
pumps on an irregular shaped lot
located in a Semi-Industry District
on the north side of Euclid Avenue
at 12115 Euclid Avenue; with the
pump islands proposed at 13' from
the property line and the canopy at
a 2' distance, instead of the required 20' from the property line
adjacent to the public right-of-way,
as stated in Section 343.15(b)(2) of
the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-385: 443 East 114th
Street (Ward 9)
Tiffany Fulton, owner, and Mekhai Jackson, tenant, appeal to
establish use as a Type A Day Care
in an existing, two-story single
family dwelling, situated on a 35'
x 100' parcel in an A1 One-Family
District on the east side of East
114th Street at 443 East 114th
Street; the proposed Type A Day
Care abuts a One-Family District
and is subject to the limitations of
Section 337.02(f)(3)(C), that require the Board of Zoning Appeals
approval, if it is located less than
30' from an adjoining premises in
a residential district not used for a
similar purpose, to determine if
adequate yard spaces and other
safeguards to preserve the character of the neighborhood are provided and that the use is appropriately located and designed to meet
a community need without adversely affecting the neighborhood.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD

five unit townhouse building in a
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 05-329: 835 Brayton
Avenue – Unit B-5
Civic Builders appealed to erect a
single family dwelling unit in a five
unit townhouse building in a TwoFamily District.
Calendar No. 05-376: 1850 Superior
Avenue
Famicos Foundations appealed to
construct a 500 square foot addition
to a four-story apartment building in
a Semi-Industry District.
The
nied:

following

appeal

was

De-

Calendar No. 05-250: 3664 West 46th
Street
Patricia Jordan appealed to install
approximately 203 linear feet of 6'
high chain link fence in the side
street yard of a corner lot in a TwoFamily District.
The following appeal was Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 05-332: 2849 East 55th
Street
Joe Immormino appealed to install
190 linear feet of 6' tall privacy
fence to enclose a corner parcel in
a Semi-Industry District.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 05-377: 83341 Broadview
Road postponed to January 23,
2006.

OF ZONING APPEALS

Calendar No. 05-335: 7202 Union
Avenue postponed to January 30,
2006.

TUESDAY, JANUARY 3, 2006

In Executive Session on January
3, 2006, the following appeals heard
by the Board on December 19, 2005
were adopted and approved.

At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, December 19, 2005, the following appeals
were heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 05-325: 835 Brayton
Avenue – Unit B-1
Civic Builders appealed to erect a
single family dwelling unit in a five
unit townhouse building in a TwoFamily District.

The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 05-367: 4313-4405 Cedar
Avenue
Giancarlo Calicchia appealed to
construct a parking lot on a 148' x
54' corner lot in a Multi-Family District.

Calendar No. 05-326: 835 Brayton
Avenue – Unit B-2
Civic Builders appealed to erect a
single family dwelling unit in a five
unit townhouse building in a TwoFamily District.

Calendar No. 05-368: 6706-6710 Detroit
Avenue
Gordon Square Homes LP appealed to expand by including four
residential units on each of two
upper floors in an existing threestory stores building in a General
Retail Business District.

Calendar No. 05-327: 835 Brayton
Avenue – Unit B-3
Civic Builders appealed to erect a
single family dwelling unit in a five
unit townhouse building in a TwoFamily District.

Calendar No. 05-370: 742-752 Starkweather Avenue
Cleveland Housing Network appealed to construct six condominiums on a corner parcel in a Local
Retail Business District.

Calendar No. 05-328: 835 Brayton
Avenue – Unit B-4
Civic Builders appealed toe erect
a single family dwelling unit in a

Calendar No. 05-371: 959 East 144th
Street
Rogers Retirement Center, Inc.
appealed to establish use as a day

14

The City Record

January 4, 2006
care for school age children and an
after school program in the lower
level of an existing two-story elderly care facility in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 05-372: 10548 St. Clair
Avenue
4HNB LLC appealed to change the
use from a store to a day care in an
existing one-story building on a corner parcel in a Local Retail Business District.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 05-373: 10125-10127 Nanford Road
Abi Akl Said appealed to change
the use of an existing two family
dwelling to a three family dwelling
in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 05-374: 735 East 126th
Street
Tamara Benjamin appealed to
establish use as a type A day care
in the basement level of an existing
two family dwelling in an A1 OneFamily district.
The following appeals were Dismissed:
Calendar No. 05-171: 9918 Lorain Avenue
Fehim Coralic appealed to change
the use from stores and suites to a
community hall in a General Retail
business District.
Calendar No. 05-236: 403-405 East
152nd Street
Richard Harris appealed to erect
a wooden wheelchair ramp at the
front of a two family dwelling in a
Two-Family District.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE
NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, January 11, 2006
1:30 p.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a public hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room

15

217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
Wednesday, January 11, 2006, at 1:30
p.m., to consider the following ordinances now pending in the Council:

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

Ord. No. 1840-05.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of the rear half of a parcel
of land on the South side of Elton
Avenue from a Local Retail Business District to a Two-Family Residential District (Map Change No.
2162, Sheet Number 1).

Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required
in
Advertisement
for
Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised, the following notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code,
each
prime
bidder,
each
minority
business
enterprise
(“MBE”) and each female business
enterprise (“FBE”) must be certified before doing business with the
City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing to receive credit for
using an MBE or FBE should
ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or FBE status
compliance with the Code, affirmative action in employment and, if
applicable, joint venture status, are
submitted to the Office of Equal
Opportunity (“OEO”) prior to the
date of bid opening or submission
of proposals or as specified by the
Director. Failure to comply with
the business enterprise code or
with representations made on these
forms may result in cancellation of
the contract or other civil or criminal penalties.”

Ord. No. 1963-05.
By Council Member Britt.
An ordinance establishing the a
Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO)
District along Larchmere Boulevard
between East 121st Street and North
Moreland Boulevard (Map Change
No. 2167, Sheet No. 9).
Ord. No. 1993-05.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of property on the northwest corner of Franklin Ave. and W.
65th St. to a Local Retail Business
District and changing the Use, Area
and Height Districts of property
located on the east side of W. 65th
St. from Franklin Avenue, including
the north side, to Bridge Avenue to
a Two Family Residential District,
a ‘B’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height
District (Map Change No. 2168, Sheet
No. 1).
Ord. No. 1994-05.
By Council Member Britt.
An ordinance to change the zoning of the rear 50 feet of 8110
Carnegie Avenue from Local Retail
Business
to
Semi-Industry
(Map
Change No. 2169, Sheet No. 5).
Ord. No. 2043-05.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Lewis, Jackson and Britt.
An ordinance expanding the Midtown Business Revitalization District as shown on the attached map
(Map Change No. 2170, Sheet Numbers 4 & 5).

For All Departments

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2006
Ord. No. 2083-05.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of land bounded by East
55th Street, Bonna Avenue and East
58th Street as shown on the attached
map to a Residence Industry District (Map Change No. 2172, Sheet
No. 4).

Joseph C. Cimperman
Chairman
Committee on City Planning

Earle B. Turner Recreation Center
—
Gymnasium
Renovations
(Phase 2), for the Division of
Architecture, Department of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance Nos. 1264-03 and 215103, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, July 16, 2003
and December 15, 2003, respectively.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2006
AT 2:00 P.M., EARLE B. TURNER
RECREATION
CENTER,
11300
MILES AVENUE, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44105.

December 28, 2005 and January 4, 2006

December 28, 2005 and January 4, 2006

Ord. No. 2095-05.
By Council Member Cintron.
An ordinance establishing the Clark
Metro Business Revitalization District (Map Change No. 2082, Sheet
Nos. 1 and 2).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.

_____

15

The City Record

16
THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2006

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2006

Cab/Chassis
with
Small
Refuse
Packer, for the Various Divisions,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 82905, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, May 9, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 2006 AT
2:00
P.M.,
MOTOR
VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE, 4150 EAST 49TH
STREET, BUILDING #1, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

Paper Contract, for the Division of
Printing and Reproduction, Department of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2130-05,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, November 28, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 2006 AT
11:00 A.M., DIVISION OF PRINTING, 1735 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

Cab/Chassis with USV Bodies, Medium and Large, for the Various
Divisions, Department of Public
Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1481-04, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
October 11, 2004.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 2006 AT
2:30
P.M.,
MOTOR
VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE, 4150 EAST 49TH
STREET, BUILDING #1, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

January 4, 2006 and January 11, 2006

Aerial Boom Lift with Trailer, for
the Various Divisions, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 829-05, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, May 9, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 2006 AT
3:00
P.M.,
MOTOR
VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE, 4150 EAST 49TH
STREET, BUILDING #1, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
December 28, 2005 and January 4, 2006
FRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 2006
Painting of Streetside Elements, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1634-05, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, October
24, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
FRIDAY,
JANUARY 13, 2006 AT 10:00 A.M.,
CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER,
1300 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.
December 28, 2005 and January 4, 2006
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2006
Asphalt for Runways, Taxiways,
Ramps and Roadways, Including
Labor and Materials for Repair
and Installation, for the Division
of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1872-05, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
October 24, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 2006 AT
10:00 A.M., 19451 Five Points Road,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.
December 28, 2005 and January 4, 2006

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2006
Maintenance and Repair of Bridge
and Special Lighting, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 163305, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, December 5,
2005.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2006 AT 10:00
A.M.,
CLEVELAND
PUBLIC
POWER, 1300 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.
13.8 kv Transformers, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 163092, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, September 21,
1992.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING, THURSDAY,
JANUARY 19, 2006 AT 10:00 A.M.,
CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER,
1300 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.
Unarmed, Uniformed Security Guards,
for the Various Divisions of City
Government, Department of Finance,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
2133-05, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, November
28, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2006 AT
10:00 A.M., DEPARTMENT OF
FINANCE, ROOM 104, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.

January 4, 2006
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 2006 AT
10:00 A.M., 19451 FIVE POINTS
ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.
Cleaning and Cement Mortar Lining
Year 2006 — Area A, for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 947-05, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 6, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF ONE
HUNDRED DOLLARS ($100.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2006 AT
11:00 A.M., PUBLIC UTILITIES
BUILDING, 1ST FLOOR AUDITORIUM, 1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Cleaning and Cement Mortar Lining
Year 2006 — Area B, for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 947-05, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 6, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF ONE
HUNDRED DOLLARS ($100.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2006 AT
11:00 A.M., PUBLIC UTILITIES
BUILDING, 1ST FLOOR AUDITORIUM, 1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Technology and Security Center, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities, as authorized
by Ordinance No. 758-04, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 7, 2004.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF ONE
HUNDRED DOLLARS ($100.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2006 AT
9:00 A.M., PUBLIC UTILITIES
BUILDING, 1ST FLOOR AUDITORIUM, 1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
January 4, 2006 and January 11, 2006

January 4, 2006 and January 11, 2006
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2006
Automotive Parts, Supplies and Services Necessary for Vehicle Maintenance,
Including
Labor
and
Materials for Repair and Installation, for the Various Divisions, Department
of
Port
Control,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 187305, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, November 1,
2005.

16

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

NONE

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
NO MEETINGS

The City Record

January 4, 2006

17

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
High voltage static pipe-type transmission cable, maintenance of — per Ord. 1014-05 — all
bids rejected — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 745-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

Board of Control — Finance Department
Sale of scrap. personal property, and by-products in December, 2005 pursuant to BOC Res.
921-52 (BOC Res. 738-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Sale of scrap. personal property, and by-products in December, 2005 pursuant to BOC Res.
921-52 (BOC Res. 739-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Window washing services — contract per Ord. 223-05 to All Star Window Cleaning, Inc.
(BOC Res. 741-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Window washing services — rescind BOC Res. 677-05 (BOC Res. 740-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Board of Control — Nottingham Water Works Plant
Administration Building Project — rescind BOC Res. 358-05 — reject all bids — Division
of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 744-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Annual Reports, 2004, 2005 design, research, layout — contract per Ord. 354-05 to
Creative Works, Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 742-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Comprehensive financial plans and service/rate & fee analysis — amend BOC Res. 582-04 —
Divisions of Water and Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 743-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Nottingham Administration Building Project — rescind BOC Res. 358-05 —
reject all bids — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 744-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Snow removal equipment, high-speed multi-function units — bids rejected
(BOC Res. 747-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Snow removal equipment, high-speed multi-function units — contract per Ord. 829-05 to M-B
Companies, Inc. (BOC Res. 746-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Annual Reports, 2004, 2005 design, research, layout — contract per Ord. 354-05 to
Creative Works, Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control
(BOC Res. 742-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Comprehensive financial plans and service/rate & fee analysis — amend
BOC Res. 582-04 — Divisions of Water and Water Pollution Control
(BOC Res. 743-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
High voltage static pipe-type transmission cable, maintenance of —
per Ord. 1014-05 — all bids rejected — Division of Cleveland Public Power
(BOC Res. 745-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Nottingham Administration Building Project — rescind BOC Res. 358-05 — reject all bids —
Division of Water (BOC Res. 744-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

17

The City Record

18

January 4, 2006

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Sale of scrap. personal property, and by-products in December, 2005 pursuant to BOC Res.
921-52 (BOC Res. 738-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Sale of scrap. personal property, and by-products in December, 2005 pursuant to BOC Res.
921-52 (BOC Res. 739-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Snow removal equipment, high-speed multi-function units — contract per
Ord. 829-05 to M-B Companies, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 746-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Window washing services — contract per Ord. 223-05 to All Star Window Cleaning, Inc. —
Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 741-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Window washing services — rescind BOC Res. 677-05 — Dept. of Finance
(BOC Res. 740-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Board of Control — Water Division
Comprehensive financial plans and service/rate & fee analysis —
amend BOC Res. 582-04 — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 743-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Nottingham Administration Building Project — rescind BOC
Res. 358-05 — reject all bids — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 744-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Annual Reports, 2004, 2005 design, research, layout — contract per
Ord. 354-05 to Creative Works, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 742-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Comprehensive financial plans and service/rate & fee analysis —
amend BOC Res. 582-04 — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 743-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Brayton Avenue-Unit B-1, 835, (Ward 13) — Civic Builders, owner, and Lee Chilcote, agent —
appeal heard on 01/03/05 (Cal. 05-325) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Brayton Avenue-Unit B-2, 835, (Ward 13) — Civic Builders, owner, and Lee Chilcote, agent —
appeal heard on 01/03/05 (Cal. 05-326) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Brayton Avenue-Unit B-3, 835, (Ward 13) — Civic Builders, owner, and Lee Chilcote, agent —
appeal heard on 01/03/05 (Cal. 05-327) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Brayton Avenue-Unit B-4, 835, (Ward 13) — Civic Builders, owner, and Lee Chilcote, agent —
appeal heard on 01/03/05 (Cal. 05-328) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Brayton Avenue-Unit B-5, 835, (Ward 13) — Civic Builders, owner, and Lee Chilcote, agent —
appeal heard on 01/03/05 (Cal. 05-329) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Broadview Road, 3340, (Ward 15) — Tom Pavlicka, owner, and Marcia Wrick, tenant — appeal
postponed to 1/23/06 on 01/03/06 (Cal. 05-377) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Cedar Avenue, 4313-4405, (Ward 5) — Giancarlo Calicchia, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 01/03/06 (Cal. 05-367) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Detroit Avenue, 6706-10, (Ward 17) — Gordon Square Homes, LP, owner and Michael Bier —
appeal granted and adopted on 01/03/06 (Cal. 05-368) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
East 126th Street, 735, (Ward 10) — Tamara Benjamin, owner — appeal denied and adopted
on 01/03/06 (Cal. 05-374) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
East 144th Street, 959, (Ward 10) — Rogers Retirement Center, Inc., owner
and Valida Burns — appeal granted and adopted on 01/03/06
(Cal. 05-371) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
East 152nd Street, 403-405, (Ward 11) — Richard Harris, owner — appeal denied and adopted
on 01/03/06 (Cal. 05-236) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
East 55th Street, 2849, (Ward 12) — Joe Immormino, owner — appeal heard on 11/28/05
(Cal. 05-332) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Lorain Avenue, 9918, (Ward 18) — Fehim Coalic, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
01/03/06 (Cal. 05-171). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

18

January 4, 2006

The City Record

19

Nanford Road, 10125-27, (Ward 19) — Abi Akl Said, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
01/03/06 (Cal. 05-373). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
St. Clair Avenue, 10548, (Ward 8) — 4HNB, LLC, owner and Betty Bridgewater — appeal
granted and adopted on 01/03/06 (Cal. 05-372) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Starkweather Avenue, 742-52, (Ward 13) — Cleveland Housing, owner and Christine Robertson —
appeal granted and adopted on 01/03/06 (Cal. 05-370) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Superior Avenue, 1850, (Ward 13) — Famicos Foundation, owner, and Beth Graham — appeal
heard on 01/03/05 (Cal. 05-376) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Union Avenue, 7202, (Ward 12) — Dwayne Smith, owner — appeal postponed to 1/30/06
on 01/03/06 (Cal. 05-335) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
West 46th Street, 3664, (Ward 15) — Patricia Jordan, owner appeal heard on 01/03/06
(Cal. 05-250). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Clinton Avenue, 3601, (Ward 13) — Domestic Violence Center, owner, and Kathy Alexander —
appeal to be heard on 01/17/06 (Cal. 05-383) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
East 114th Street, 443, (Ward 9) — Tiffany Fulton, owner, and Mekhai Jackson, tenant —
appeal to be heard on 01/17/06 (Cal. 05-385) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Euclid Avenue, 12115, (Ward 9) — Rapid Stop Properties LLC, owner, and Ibrahim Najjar —
appeal to be heard on 01/17/06 (Cal. 05-384) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Shaker Boulevard, 11601, (Ward 6) — Patrick Shaker Properties LLC, Owner
and Michael Downing, agent — appeal to be heard on 01/17/06
(Cal. 05-382) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

City Council
Franklin, Sandra — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — January 2, 2006 Council Meeting
(F 1-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Lipovan Holan, Emily — oath of office — Clerk of Cleveland City Council
(F 5-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Rules of Council (F 6-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Sweeney, Martin J. — oath of office — President of Cleveland City Council
(F 4-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Wards 1 through 21 Council Members — oath of office (F 3-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

City of Cleveland Bids
Aerial boom lift with trailer — Department of Public Service — per Ord. 829-05 — bid due
January 12, 2006 (advertised 12/28/2005 and 1/4/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Asphalt for runways, taxiways, ramps and roadways — Department of
Port Control — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — per Ord.
1872-05 — bid due January 25, 2006 (advertised 12/28/2005 and 1/4/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Automotive parts, supplies and services for vehicle maintenance —
Department of Port Control — per Ord. 1873-05 — bid due February 1, 2006
(advertised 1/4/2006 and 1/11/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Bridge and special lighting maintenance and repair — Department of
Public Utilities — Division of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 1633-05 — bid due
January 25, 2006 (advertised 1/4/2006 and 1/11/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Cab / chassis with small refuse packer — Department of Public
Service — per Ord. 829-05 — bid due January 12, 2006
(advertised 12/28/2005 and 1/4/2006). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Cab / chassis with USV bodies, medium and large — Department
of Public Service — per Ord. 1481-04 — bid due January 12, 2006
(advertised 12/28/2005 and 1/4/2006). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Distribution water mains — Area A-2006, cleaning and cement mortar
lining of — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 947-05 —
bid due February 1, 2006 (advertised 1/4/2006 and 1/11/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Distribution water mains — Area B-2006, cleaning and cement mortar
lining of — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 947-05 —
bid due February 1, 2006 (advertised 1/4/2006 and 1/11/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Earle B. Turner Recreation Center gymnasium renovations (Phase 2) —
Department of Public Service — Division of Architecture — per Ord. 1264-03,
2151-03 — bid due January 11, 2006 (advertised 12/28/2005 and 1/4/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

19

The City Record

20

January 4, 2006

Painting of streetside elements — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 1634-05 — bid due
January 20, 2006 (advertised 12/28/2005 and 1/4/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Paper contract — Department of Finance — Division of Printing and
Reproduction — per Ord. 2130-05 — bid due January 18, 2006
(advertised 1/4/2006 and 1/11/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Security guards, unarmed and uniformed — Department of Finance — per
Ord. 2133-05 — bid due January 25, 2006 (advertised 1/4/2006 and 1/11/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Technology and Security Center — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water — per Ord. 758-04 — bid due February 1, 2006
(advertised 1/4/2006 and 1/11/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Transformers, 13.8 kv — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 1630-92 — bid due January 25, 2006
(advertised 1/4/2006 and 1/11/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16

City Planning Commission
Carnegie Ave., 8110 (rear 50 feet) — change the zoning — Semi-Industry
(O 1994-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Clark Metro Business Revitalization District — establish (O 2095-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
E. 55th St., Bonna Ave. & E. 58th St. (land bounded by) — change the Use District —
Residence Industry District (O 2083-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Elton Ave. (rear half of a parcel south) — change the Use District — Two-Family
Residential District (O 1840-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Franklin Ave. & W. 65th St. (northwest corner) — change the Use District — Local Retail
Business District — W. 65th St. (east side) — change the Use, Area and Height
Districts — Two Family Residential District, a ‘B’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height
District (O 1993-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Larchmere Blvd. (between E. 121st St. & N. Moreland Blvd.) —
establishing the Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District
(O 1963-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Midtown Business Revitalization District — expansion (O 2043-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

Clerk of Council
Franklin, Sandra — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — January 2, 2006 Council Meeting
(F 1-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Lipovan Holan, Emily — oath of office — Clerk of Cleveland City Council
(F 5-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

Cleveland Municipal School District
Steelyard Commons LLC — Tax Increment Financing Agreement —
payments —

Steelyard Commons TIF Fund — creation

(O 1780-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

Communications
Franklin, Sandra — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — January 2, 2006 Council Meeting
(F 1-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Rules of Council (F 6-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

Economic Development Department
Steelyard Commons LLC — Tax Increment Financing Agreement — payments —
Cleveland City School District — Steelyard Commons TIF Fund — creation
(O 1780-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

Funds
Steelyard Commons LLC — Tax Increment Financing Agreement — payments —
Cleveland City School District — Steelyard Commons TIF Fund — creation
(O 1780-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

20

January 4, 2006

The City Record

21

Mayor’s Office
Jackson, Frank G. — oath of office — Mayor (F 2-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

Oath of Office
Jackson, Frank G. — Mayor (F 2-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Lipovan Holan, Emily — Clerk of Cleveland City Council (F 5-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Sweeney, Martin J. — President of Cleveland City Council (F 4-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Wards 1 through 21 Council Members (F 3-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

Public Hearings (Notices)
Carnegie Ave., 8110 (rear 50 feet) — change the zoning — Semi-Industry
(O 1994-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Clark Metro Business Revitalization District — establish (O 2095-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
E. 55th St., Bonna Ave. & E. 58th St. (land bounded by) — change the Use District —
Residence Industry District (O 2083-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Elton Ave. (rear half of a parcel south) — change the Use District — Two-Family
Residential District (O 1840-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Franklin Ave. & W. 65th St. (northwest corner) — change the Use District — Local Retail
Business District — W. 65th St. (east side) — change the Use, Area and Height
Districts — Two Family Residential District, a ‘B’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height
District (O 1993-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Larchmere Blvd. (between E. 121st St. & N. Moreland Blvd.) —
establishing the Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District
(O 1963-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Midtown Business Revitalization District — expansion (O 2043-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

Ward 05
Midtown Business Revitalization District — expansion (O 2043-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

Ward 06
Carnegie Ave., 8110 (rear 50 feet) — change the zoning — Semi-Industry
(O 1994-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Larchmere Blvd. (between E. 121st St. & N. Moreland Blvd.) —
establishing the Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District
(O 1963-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Midtown Business Revitalization District — expansion (O 2043-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

Ward 07
Midtown Business Revitalization District — expansion (O 2043-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

Ward 13
E. 55th St., Bonna Ave. & E. 58th St. (land bounded by) — change the Use District
— Residence Industry District (O 2083-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Midtown Business Revitalization District — expansion (O 2043-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

Ward 14
Clark Metro Business Revitalization District — establish (O 2095-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

Ward 17
Elton Ave. (rear half of a parcel south) — change the Use District — Two-Family
Residential District (O 1840-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Franklin Ave. & W. 65th St. (northwest corner) — change the Use District — Local Retail
Business District — W. 65th St. (east side) — change the Use, Area and Height
Districts — Two Family Residential District, a ‘B’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height
District (O 1993-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

21

The City Record

22

January 4, 2006

Zoning
Carnegie Ave., 8110 (rear 50 feet) — change the zoning — Semi-Industry
(O 1994-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
E. 55th St., Bonna Ave. & E. 58th St. (land bounded by) — change the Use District
— Residence Industry District (O 2083-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Elton Ave. (rear half of a parcel south) — change the Use District — Two-Family
Residential District (O 1840-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Franklin Ave. & W. 65th St. (northwest corner) — change the Use District — Local Retail
Business District — W. 65th St. (east side) — change the Use, Area and Height
Districts — Two Family Residential District, a ‘B’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height
District (O 1993-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Larchmere Blvd. (between E. 121st St. & N. Moreland Blvd.) — establishing the Pedestrian
Retail Overlay (PRO) District (O 1963-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Midtown Business Revitalization District — expansion (O 2043-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

22

