The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

December the Sixth, Two Thousand and Six

Frank G. Jackson
Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Emily Lipovan
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Nina Turner
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Joe Cimperman
Joseph Santiago
Brian J. Cummins
Kevin J. Kelley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
18
18
19
20
21
21
21
22
23
36
37

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Nina Turner..................................................16204 Sunny Glen Avenue
44128
Robert J. White .................................................9703 Cardwell Avenue
44105
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Patricia J. Britt........................................................12402 Britton Drive
44120
Fannie M. Lewis.........................................................7416 Star Avenue
44103
Sabra Pierce Scott.................................................1136 East 98th Street
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Roosevelt Coats ....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
44112
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Joe Cimperman....................................................3053 West 12th Street
44113
Joseph Santiago ...................................................3169 West 14th Street
44109
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Kevin J. Kelley ..............................................6608 Woodhaven Avenue
44144
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Michael A. Dolan ...............................................16519 West Park Road
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Emily Lipovan, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Tracy Y. Martin, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
______________, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Debra Linn Talley, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Julius Ciaccia, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNELAND HUMAN RESOURCES – Trudy Hutchinson, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Brian A. Reilly, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Angel Guzman, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James
Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Rev. Sam Edward Small, Council Member Joe Cimperman.
FAIR CAMPAIGN FINANCE COMMISSION – Chris Warren, C. Ellen Connally, Hillary S.
Taylor.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council
Member ____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; _________, Vice Chair; Daniel Conway, Doris
Honsa, Lisa Camacho.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley; Councilman Nina Turner.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue

POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Anjou Parekh, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.

AUDIT COMMITTEE – Robert Rawson, Chairman; Yvette Ittu, Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis,
Don Neebes, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – India Pierce Lee, Chair;
Laura M. Noble, Vice Chair; Robert Brown, Thomas Coffey, Jennifer Coleman, Lee,
Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, Ari Maron, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Council Member Joe
Cimperman, Robert Jackimowicz; Robert Keiser, Secretary.

CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
14B
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Emanuella Groves
13A
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Anita Laster Mays
14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore
14A
Judge Charles Patton, Jr.
12B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Michael Ryan
12A
Judge Angela R. Stokes
15C
Judge Joan Synenberg
13C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
12C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Michael E. Flanagan – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak – Bailiff;
Regina Daniel – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2006

Vol. 93

No. 4852

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2006
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at

www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

EMILY LIPOVAN
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2006-2009
MONDAY—Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property & Recreation Committee: Johnson, Chair; White, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek,
Turner.
9:30 A.M. — Health & Human Services Committee: Britt, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair; Conwell, Kelley,
Reed, Santiago, Westbrook.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Brady, Chair; Turner, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Johnson,
Polensek, Reed, Santiago, White.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Dolan, Vice
Chair; Cimperman, Lewis, Pierce
Scott, Reed, White.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Britt,
Coats, Conwell, Pierce Scott, Westbrook, White, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Pierce
Scott, Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair;
Brady, Cimperman, Cummins, Coats,
Lewis, Westbrook. Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
Lewis, Chair; Santiago, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Coats, Conwell, Johnson, Turner.

10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Britt, Coats, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek, Santiago, Turner.

with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Santiago.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice Chair;
Cleveland, Cummins, Dolan, Kelley,
Polensek, Santiago, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chair, Westbrook, Vice Chair, Conwell, Dolan,
Lewis, Reed, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland,
Kelley,
Pierce
Scott,
Polensek.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Sweeney, Chair; Britt, Kelley,
Pierce Scott, Santiago, Westbrook,
White.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats, Chair; Pierce Scott, Kelley,
Sweeney, Westbrook.

File No. 2060-06.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 5144147 — Kimetra L.
Leslie, d.b.a. Big Fahies Deli, 7535
Kinsman Avenue. (Ward 5). Received.
File No. 2061-06.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 19449310060 — Dave’s Supermarket, Inc., d.b.a. Dave’s Supermarket, Lee Harvard Shopping Center,
16820 Harvard Avenue. (Ward 1).
Received.
File No. 2062-06.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 0124920 — Al Led LLC,
d.b.a. Almira Beverage, 3312 West
105th Street, Unit A. (Ward 19). Received.
PLAT

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________

Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, December 4, 2006
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Dolan,
Johnson, Kelley, Lewis, Polensek,
Reed, Santiago, Pierce Scott, Sweeney, Turner, Westbrook, White and
Zone.
Also present were Mayor Frank G.
Jackson; Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff; Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer; Valarie J. McCall, Chief
of Governmental Affairs; Tracy Y.
Martin, Chief of Education; Maureen
Harper, Chief of Communications;
Debra Linn Talley, Director of
Equal Opportunity; Rebecca Schaltenbrand, Legislative Affairs; Directors Triozzi, Dumas, Ciaccia, Wasik,
Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush, Hutchinson, Reilly, Fumich, Guzman, Griffin and Brown.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
prayer was offered by Pastor Mark
Robbins of Evening Star Missionary
Baptist Church, 9902 St. Clair Avenue, located in Ward 8. Pledge of
Allegiance.

File No. 2063-06.
Clinton Court Subdivision — Creating Lots 1 through 5 & Block “A”
— Plat. (Ward 13).
Approved by Public Service and
City Planning Committees.
Without objection, plat approved.
Yeas 20. Nays 0.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 2064-06—Dolphus “Dino”
Hendrix.
Res. No. 2065-06—Laveria Carter.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 2066-06—Jack Saul.
Res. No. 2067-06—Gary Failor.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 2068-06—Colleen Gilson.
WELCOME RESOLUTION

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
MOTION
10:00 A.M. — Aviation & Transportation Committee: Kelley, Chair;
Westbrook, Vice Chair; Brancatelli,
Britt, Cleveland, Dolan, Turner.

On the motion of Council Member
Zone, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting were dispensed

2221

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 2069-06—Jeff Sodowsky.

The City Record

4
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 2044-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of dry cell
batteries, for the various divisions
of City government.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the
term of one or two years for the necessary items of dry cell batteries in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term,
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the various divisions of
City government. Bids shall be taken
in a manner that permits an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the items
as the Board of Control determines.
Alternate bids for a period less than
the specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire term. The Director of Finance
is authorized to enter into one or
more contracts with a term of two
years instead of one year when there
is a financial advantage to the City.
For purposes of this ordinance, a
financial advantage shall be determined by the Director of Finance by
comparing the bids received for both
terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 118770)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 2045-06.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of water
revenue bonds of the city to pay
costs of improvements to the waterworks system and to refund outstanding water revenue bonds to
obtain debt service savings; autho-

rizing hedge agreements, supplemental indentures and other agreements related to water revenue
bonds; authorizing and approving
related matters.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
Ohio, a municipal corporation and
political subdivision of the State of
Ohio, is authorized under Article
XVIII of the Constitution of the State
and the Charter of the City, among
other things: (a) to own and operate
the public utility referred to as the
Waterworks System; (b) to make,
from time to time, improvements to
the Waterworks System; (c) to borrow money for the purpose of paying costs of those improvements and
refunding outstanding bonds issued
for that purpose; and (d) to issue
additional bonds secured by a pledge
of and lien on the Net Revenues of
the Waterworks System on a parity
with Water Revenue Bonds outstanding under the Indenture identified in Section 1; and
Whereas, this Council has determined that it is necessary to issue
additional Water Revenue Bonds
under the Indenture in order to
finance costs of improvements to the
Waterworks System and to refund
certain Outstanding Revenue Bonds
to obtain debt service savings, all as
defined and provided in this Ordinance; and
Whereas, this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of public property, health and safety, and for the further reason that
this Ordinance is required to be
immediately effective to permit the
issuance and sale of additional
Water Revenue Bonds to fund contracts for the improvement of, and
to obtain debt service savings for
the benefit of, the Waterworks System and thereby provide for the
usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition
to the words and terms defined in
the Indenture, the following words
and terms shall have the following
meanings, unless the context or use
otherwise indicates:
“2007 Bonds” means the Bonds
authorized to be issued under this
Ordinance and the Indenture in one
or more Series, sold under one or
more Bond Purchase Agreements
and secured under one or more Supplemental Indentures supplementing
the Indenture to provide the terms
of each Series. 2007 Bonds issued
subsequent to December 31, 2007
shall include in their designation
reference to the year in which they
are issued, as provided in Section 2.
“Bonds” or “Water Revenue Bonds”
means all Bonds issued and outstanding under the Indenture.
“Bond Purchase Agreement” means
one or more purchase agreements
between the City and the Original
Purchasers with respect to the 2007
Bonds authorized by Section 3 of
this Ordinance.
“Certificate of Award” means one
or more certificates providing for the
determination of the final terms of
the 2007 Bonds of each Series, consistent with the requirements of this
Ordinance including, without limitation, Section 3 of this Ordinance.

2222

December 6, 2006
“Continuing Disclosure Agreement”
means one or more agreements
authorized by Section 12 of this
Ordinance and to be in accordance
with Rule 15c2-12 of the Securities
and Exchange Commission.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby bond purchase agreement or other credit enhancement,
support or liquidity device used to
enhance or provide for the security
or liquidity of 2007 Bonds of any
Series.
“Defeasance
Agreement”
means
one or more agreements between the
City and the Trustee authorized by
Section 8 of this Ordinance concerning the defeasance of certain Outstanding
Revenue
Bonds
using
funds of the Water Division of the
City.
“Defeasance Fund” means the fund,
including the account or accounts
therein, required to be maintained
with the Trustee, as escrow agent.
“Defeased Bonds” means those
Outstanding Bonds identified in the
Defeasance Agreement.
“Escrow Agreement” means one or
more agreements between the City
and the Trustee, in its capacity as
Escrow Agent, authorized by Section
6 of this Ordinance.
“Escrow Fund” means the fund,
including the account or accounts
therein, required to be maintained
with the Trustee, in its capacity as
Escrow
Agent
pursuant
to
the
Escrow Agreement.
“Financial Advisor” means any
financial advisory firm or firms
retained by the Director of Finance
of the City, from time to time, in
connection with the 2007 Bonds or
any Hedge Agreement.
“Hedge Agreement” has the meaning given in Section 9 of this Ordinance.
“Indenture” means the Amended
and Restated Indenture, effective
October 5, 2001, between the City
and U.S. Bank National Association,
as successor trustee, delivered under
authority of Ordinance No. 2011-95
passed by the Council of the City on
April 1, 1996 and the consent of the
owners of 66-2/3% of the applicable
Outstanding Revenue Bonds under
the Indenture of Mortgage dated as
of November 1, 1977, as supplemented and amended by the Supplemental Trust Indentures delivered with
respect to the Outstanding Revenue
Bonds and as to be supplemented
and amended as provided in this
Ordinance for the 2007 Bonds.
“Original Purchasers” means, with
respect to each Series of 2007 Bonds,
the financial institutions identified
in the Certificate of Award for that
Series.
“Outstanding Revenue Bonds” means
Water Revenue Bonds of the City
issued and outstanding, from time to
time, under the Indenture and consisting on the date of introduction of
this Ordinance of the following: Series
G (currently outstanding in the
amount of $133,045,000), Series H
(currently
outstanding
in
the
amount of $14,470,000), Series I (currently outstanding in the amount of
$161,875,000), Series J (currently outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$63,345,000), Series K (currently outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$69,725,000), Series L (currently out-

December 6, 2006
standing
in
the
amount
of
$90,000,000), Series M (currently outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$172,335,000), and Series N (currently outstanding in the amount of
$64,480,000).
“Refunded Bonds” means those Outstanding Revenue Bonds designated
in the Certificate of Award as the
Water Revenue Bonds to be refunded with proceeds of the 2007 Bonds.
“Supplemental Indenture” means
one or more Supplemental Indentures between the City and the
Trustee securing the 2007 Bonds and
authorized under Section 6 of this
Ordinance.
Section 2. Authorization of the
2007 Bonds. This Council finds and
determines it is necessary and proper and in the best interest of the
City to issue the 2007 Bonds for the
purpose of paying costs of improvements to the Waterworks System and refunding the Refunded
Bonds. The 2007 Bonds may be
issued in one or more Series and at
the same time or different times,
provided that the Bond Purchase
Agreement for any Series of 2007
Bonds to be issued under this Ordinance shall be signed no later than
two years from the date of passage
of this Ordinance. The principal
amount of each Series of 2007 Bonds
is to be the amount set forth in the
Certificate of Award authorized in
Section 3. The aggregate principal
amount of 2007 Bonds of all Series
issued for the purpose of paying
costs of improvements shall not
exceed $185,000,000. The aggregate
principal amount of 2007 Bonds
issued for the purpose of refunding
the Refunded Bonds shall be the
amount determined by the Director
of Finance, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, to be
necessary to refund the Refunded
Bonds and to obtain aggregate net
present value debt service savings
with respect to the Refunded Bonds
of not less than three percent (3%).
The proceeds from the sale of each
Series of 2007 Bonds shall be allocated, deposited and applied as provided in Section 4 of this Ordinance.
The 2007 Bonds may be issued in
one or more separate Series, each
bearing a distinctive designation,
provided that the 2007 Bonds of each
Series satisfy the requirements of
this Ordinance. Separate Series of
2007 Bonds may be issued at the
same or different times. The 2007
Bonds of each Series shall be designated as provided in the applicable Certificate of Award and shall
include in the designation reference
to the calendar year in which the
applicable Series is issued. A separate Certificate of Award and a separate Supplemental Indenture may
be delivered for each Series.
In the event that the Director of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, determines
that the City’s best interests will be
served by causing a Series of 2007
Bonds to be obligations bearing
interest at variable interest rates,
then the Director of Finance is
authorized to so specify in the Certificate of Award for that Series. If
the Director of Finance so determines, then the method and procedure by which the variable rate of
interest to be borne by the 2007

The City Record
Bonds of that Series shall be determined as provided in the applicable
Supplemental Indenture, whether by
auction, by reference to a market
index, by a remarketing agent or
otherwise; provided that no Series of
2007 Bonds shall bear interest at a
rate in excess of sixteen percent
(16%) per year. Notwithstanding
that limitation, a Series of 2007
Bonds held by a provider of a Credit Support Instrument may bear interest at a rate not in excess of twenty-five percent (25%) per year as
provided in the agreement with the
provider of the Credit Support Instrument. The Director of Finance may
determine that the terms of a variable rate Series of 2007 Bonds may
or may not permit the Holders to tender their variable rate 2007 Bonds for
purchase by the City. If the Director
of Finance designates any Series of
2007 Bonds as variable rate 2007
Bonds, and if the Holders of that
Series of 2007 Bonds are to be entitled to tender those 2007 Bonds for
purchase,
then
the
Director
of
Finance shall also designate in the
Certificate of Award for those variable rate 2007 Bonds, the tender
agent or agents and the remarketing
agent or agents, which designations
shall be based on the determination
of the Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, that the parties so designated possess the requisite resources
and experience to provide the services required of them and that the
terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide such services are fair and commercially reasonable. The Director of Finance is
authorized to enter into agreements
in connection with the delivery of
the 2007 Bonds, and from time to
time thereafter so long as the 2007
Bonds are outstanding, with providers of Credit Support Instruments,
tender agents (which may be the
Trustee), remarketing agents (which
may be any of the Original Purchasers) and others as may be determined by the Director of Finance to
be necessary or appropriate to provide for the method of determining
the variable interest rates, permitting holders the right of tender and
providing for payment of the purchase price of, or debt service on, the
variable rate 2007 Bonds. In the
event the variable rate 2007 Bonds
are issued as auction rate obligations, the Director of Finance is
authorized to enter into agreements
with auction agents and others, or to
cause the Trustee to enter into those
agreements, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor that
the parties so designated possess the
requisite resources and experience to
provide the services required of them
and that the terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide such services are fair and commercially reasonable. The Director of
Finance is authorized to pay any
fees
associated
with
agreements
entered into pursuant to this Section
from proceeds of the 2007 Bonds, to
the extent permitted by the Indenture, and from the Net Revenues of
the Utility (as each term is defined
in the Indenture).
The Director of Finance, in connection with the original issuance of
any Series of 2007 Bonds, and

2223

5
regardless of whether that Series of
2007 Bonds bears interest at variable or fixed rates, is authorized to
contract for one or more Credit Support Instruments, and to pay the
costs of Credit Support Instruments
from proceeds of the 2007 Bonds, if
she determines, based on the written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that the Credit Support Instrument
will result in a savings in the cost
of the financing to the City.
The Refunded Bonds shall be designated by the Director of Finance
in the Certificate of Award and
shall consist of those Outstanding
Revenue Bonds the refunding of
which from proceeds of a Series of
2007 bonds will provide to the City
net present value debt service savings of not less than three percent
(3%). The Director of Finance may
rely on the written advice of the
Financial Advisor in making that
determination. The Refunded Bonds
shall be called for redemption or
retired on the date or dates specified in the Certificate of Award. The
redemption dates so specified shall
be the dates required under the
Code for compliance with Section
149(d) of the Code and other applicable federal tax laws.
Section 3. Sale of 2007 Bonds. The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver a Certificate of Award for
the 2007 Bonds. In the event the 2007
Bonds are issued in more than one
Series sold at different times, a separate Certificate of Award shall be
signed and delivered for each separately delivered Series. The sale of
the 2007 Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchasers selected by
the Director of Finance and identified in the Certificate of Award, following consultation with the Director of Public Utilities and based on
an evaluation of the qualifications
of firms that have proposed to
underwrite the 2007 Bonds. Each
Certificate of Award shall determine
the following, consistent with this
Ordinance and the Indenture:
(a)
the
aggregate
principal
amount; provided that amount shall
not exceed $185,000,000 with respect
to
2007
Bonds
issued
to
fund
improvements to the Waterworks
System;
(b) the date or dates of the 2007
Bonds;
(c) the purchase price to be paid
to the City by the Original Purchasers, which amount shall be not
less than: (i) 97% of the amount
determined by subtracting from the
aggregate principal amount of the
2007 Bonds any aggregate original
issue discount net of any aggregate
original issue premium with respect
to the 2007 Bonds, plus (ii) any
accrued interest on the 2007 Bonds
from their date to the date of their
delivery to the Original Purchasers;
(d) whether any 2007 Bonds are
subject to redemption or purchase
prior to maturity and, with respect
to 2007 Bonds bearing interest at
fixed
rates,
the
terms
for
the
redemption or purchase of 2007
Bonds of the applicable Series by
the City prior to maturity, consistent
with Section 5;
(e) the dates on which principal
of the 2007 Bonds is to be paid,
which shall be not later than January 1, 2037, with an identification of

6
whether the payment is due by stated maturity or by mandatory sinking fund redemption of 2007 Bonds
of a particular maturity;
(f) the interest rates to be borne
by 2007 Bonds bearing interest at a
fixed rate, the weighted average of
which shall not exceed six percent
(6%) as to 2007 Bonds of any Series,
and the method by which the interest rate is to be determined for 2007
Bonds bearing interest at variable
rates, consistent with Section 2;
(g) the particular Outstanding
Revenue Bonds or portions thereof
to be Refunded Bonds;
(h) the title and Series designation for the 2007 Bonds.
(i) the amount, if any, of proceeds
of the sale of 2007 Bonds of any
Series to be deposited in the Debt
Service Reserve Fund in order to
cause the balance therein to equal
the Debt Service Reserve Requirement, if and to the extent required
by
the
applicable
Supplemental
Indenture, and any determination as
to whether a municipal bond insurance policy, bank letter or line of
credit, or other form of credit or liquidity facility enhancing the security for 2007 Bonds of that Series shall
be provided in lieu of cash in the
Debt Service Reserve Fund;
(j) the Paying Agent; and
(k) whether any 2007 Bonds are to
be secured by or payable from any
Credit Support Instruments.
The Director of Finance may
enter into one or more Bond Purchase Agreements with the Original
Purchasers of 2007 Bonds setting
forth the conditions for delivery of
the 2007 Bonds that are consistent
with this Ordinance, the Certificate
of Award, and the Indenture and
that are determined by the Director
of Finance, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, to be
customary for water revenue bonds
issued by governmental entities,
including, without limitation, representations as to the accuracy and
completeness of information contained in the Official Statement of
the City described in Section 12.
It is determined that the terms of
the 2007 Bonds as so determined
within the limitations set forth in
this Ordinance and as so specified
and set forth in the Certificate of
Award will be in the best interest
of the City and consistent with all
legal requirements.
Section 4. Application of Proceeds
of 2007 Bonds. The proceeds of the
sale of the 2007 Bonds shall be
deposited as follows:
(a) to the payment of any providers of any Credit Support Instruments,
the
fees
and
expenses
required to be paid by the City to
obtain the Credit Support Instrument;
(b) to the Trustee, for deposit to
the credit of the Interest Account in
the Debt Service Fund, the amount,
if any, received by the City upon
delivery of the 2007 Bonds as
accrued interest on any 2007 Bonds
from their dated date to the date of
the delivery of and payment for
those 2007 Bonds;
(c) to the Trustee, for deposit to
the credit of the Debt Service Reserve Fund, any amount identified
in the Certificate of Award as
required to be deposited in the Debt
Service Reserve Fund;

The City Record
(d) to the Trustee, for deposit to
the credit of any Escrow Fund
established pursuant to any Escrow
Agreement, any proceeds to be applied in accordance with the Escrow
Agreement to refund the Refunded
Bonds;
(e) to the City for deposit in the
Construction Fund for the 2007
Bonds (to be established under the
applicable Supplemental Indenture)
the proceeds to be applied to pay
costs of improvements to the Waterworks System, and to the Trustee
for deposit in the Capitalized Interest Fund for the 2007 Bonds (to be
established under the applicable
Supplemental Indenture) any proceeds to be applied to pay interest
on the 2007 Bonds during construction of the improvements (as specified in the applicable Supplemental
Indenture);
(f) to the counterparty under any
Hedge Agreement, any payment
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be paid from the proceeds of the 2007 Bonds, including
any termination payment in the
event that the Director of Finance
determines it is in the best interests
of the City to terminate a Hedge
Agreement relating to Outstanding
Revenue Bonds; and
(g) to the Costs of Issuance Fund,
to be created under the applicable
Supplemental Indenture, such amounts
as are needed to pay costs of issuing the 2007 Bonds and refunding
the 2007 Bonds.
Provision shall be made in the
Supplemental Indentures for the
application of any amounts held in
the funds and accounts established
under the Indenture and no longer
required for the security of Outstanding Revenue Bonds as a result
of the Refunded Bonds no longer
being Outstanding, or any amounts
that otherwise are in excess of the
required balances. Provisions may
be made in the Supplemental Indentures for the creation of separate
accounts within the funds established under the Indenture or Supplemental Indentures.
The proceeds from the sale of the
2007 Bonds are appropriated and
shall be used for the purpose for
which those 2007 Bonds are issued
as provided in this Ordinance.
Section 5. Terms and Provisions
Applicable to the 2007 Bonds.
(a) Form; Exchange and Transfer.
All 2007 Bonds shall be issued in
fully registered form. The 2007 Bonds
initially shall be delivered only in
book-entry form, shall be registered
in the name of the Depository (as
defined in the Indenture) or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository, and shall not be transferable or
exchangeable (except for transfer to
another Depository or its nominee)
without further action by the City
pursuant to the provisions of the Supplemental Indenture.
(b) Dates; Denominations. The
2007 Bonds shall be dated as of the
date or dates provided in the Certificate of Award. The 2007 Bonds of
each Series shall be issued in the
denominations permitted in the Supplemental Indenture.
(c) Interest and Place of Payment. The 2007 Bonds shall bear
interest at their respective interest

2224

December 6, 2006
rates specified in the Certificate of
Award (or, in the case of variable
rate 2007 Bonds, determined pursuant to the Supplemental Indenture). The 2007 Bonds of the same
Series and same maturity may bear
interest at different interest rates.
The 2007 Bonds of each Series shall
bear interest from the most recent
date to which interest has been paid
or duly provided for or, if no interest has been paid or duly provided
for, from their date. The principal
and any redemption premium and
the interest payable on each 2007
Bond shall be payable at the times,
to the persons and in the manner set
forth in, or referenced by, the Supplemental
Indenture,
including,
without limitation, provisions thereof permitting special arrangements
for payments to the Depository.
(d) Maturities. The 2007 Bonds
shall mature on the principal retirement dates provided in the Certificate of Award.
(e) Optional and Mandatory Redemption. The 2007 Bonds may be
subject to redemption prior to maturity at the option of the City, if and
to the extent provided in the Certificate of Award. Any 2007 Bonds
determined to be subject to optional
redemption shall be redeemable on
and after the date and at the
redemption price set forth in the
applicable
Certificate
of
Award,
which date shall be not later than
ten years from the first interest payment date for the 2007 Bonds of the
applicable Series and which initial
redemption
price
shall
be
not
greater than 102% of the principal
amount of Bonds to be redeemed.
The 2007 Bonds of the applicable
Series maturing by their stated
terms after the earliest optional
redemption date shall be subject to
redemption at the option of the City
on or after the earliest optional
redemption date in whole or in part
on any date at the redemption prices
provided in the Certificate of Award
and in accordance with the applicable Supplemental Indenture and the
Indenture. The 2007 Bonds designated in the Certificate of Award as
term bonds subject to mandatory
sinking fund redemption shall be
redeemed prior to maturity on each
mandatory redemption date designated in the Certificate of Award in
the aggregate amount of the sinking fund installment to be paid on
such mandatory redemption date, all
as provided in the Certificate of
Award and in accordance with the
Supplemental Indenture.
(f) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. The 2007 Bonds may be subject
to purchase by the City in lieu of
optional redemption if and to the
extent provided in the Certificate of
Award and applicable Supplemental
Indenture.
(g) Execution. The 2007 Bonds shall
be signed by the persons and in the
manner set forth in the Indenture.
(h) Numbering. The 2007 Bonds
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance.
Section 6. Authorization of Supplemental Indentures; Escrow Agreement. In order to secure the payment of the principal of and any
premium and interest on the 2007
Bonds,
the
Mayor,
Director
of
Finance and Director of Public Util-

December 6, 2006
ities, or any two of them, are authorized to sign and deliver to the
Trustee, in trust for the Original
Purchasers and subsequent holders
of the 2007 Bonds, one or more Supplemental Indentures, approved as
to form and correctness by the
Director of Law, not inconsistent
with this Ordinance, the Certificate
of Award and the Indenture and not
substantially adverse to the City as
may be approved by the officers
signing the same on behalf of the
City. The determination by those
officers that a Supplemental Indenture is not substantially adverse to
the City shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing and delivery
of that Supplemental Indenture by
those officers.
In order to cause the proceeds of
the 2007 Bonds and any funds of the
City deposited in an Escrow Fund
to be invested as permitted under
Section 9.02 of the Indenture so that
the Refunded Bonds are deemed
paid and discharged, and in order to
cause the amount to be deposited to
be dedicated and applied to the payment of the principal of and interest and any redemption premium on
the Refunded Bonds as and when
due, to and including the applicable
redemption date, the Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver one or more Escrow Agreements between the City and the
Trustee as Escrow Agent, approved
as to form and correctness by the
Director of Law, providing for the
establishment of an Escrow Fund as
a trust fund in the custody of the
Trustee and the investment, dedication and application of the moneys
deposited in the accounts therein
and further providing for the payment of the fees and expenses of the
Trustee for the performance of its
duties
as
Escrow
Agent.
Each
Escrow Agreement shall provide for
the redemption of the applicable
Refunded Bonds subject to redemption in accordance with the Certificate of Award and shall provide
irrevocable
instruction
to
the
Trustee to effect such redemption in
accordance with the Indenture. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
take such other actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to accomplish the refunding of the Refunded
Bonds, including without limitation,
the retention of a firm of independent certified public accountants to
verify that the securities to be in an
Escrow Fund are of such maturities
or redemption dates and interest
payment dates, and bear such interest, as will be sufficient, together
with any cash in an Escrow Fund,
for the payment of debt service on
the Refunded Bonds.
Section 7. Rebate Fund. There is
established and ordered to be maintained one or more separate accounts for the 2007 Bonds within the
Rebate Fund held in the custody of
the Trustee under the Indenture.
The Rebate Fund is not pledged to
the payment of debt service and is
free and clear of any pledge or lien
given under the Indenture as security for the 2007 Bonds or the Outstanding Revenue Bonds. Calculations of excess earnings that may be
due and payable to the federal government pursuant to the Code and
deposits to those accounts of the

The City Record
Rebate Fund shall be made as provided in the applicable Supplemental Indenture.
Section 8. Defeasance of Outstanding Bonds. In the event that any Outstanding Revenue Bonds are to be
defeased using Net Revenues of the
Waterworks System for the purpose,
the Defeased Bonds shall be designated by the City in the Defeasance
Agreement and shall consist of Outstanding Revenue Bonds the defeasance of which will enable the City,
in the judgment of the Director of
Finance based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, to improve
the debt service coverage ratio of
the Water System (being the ratio
of Net Revenues to Annual Debt
Service Requirements, as defined in
the Indenture). The Director of
Finance is authorized to deposit into
the Defeasance Fund, from moneys
transferred to the Defeasance Fund
from Fund No. 52-300 of the Water
Division, an amount not to exceed
$60,000,000, with the actual amount
to be determined by the Director of
Finance in consultation with the
Director of Public Utilities. In order
to cause the moneys deposited into
the Defeasance Fund to be invested
as required under Section 9.02 of the
Indenture so that the Defeased
Bonds are deemed paid and discharged, and in order to cause the
amounts so deposited to be dedicated and applied solely to the payment
of the principal of and interest and
any redemption premium on the
Defeased Bonds, as and when due at
maturity or upon prior redemption,
the Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver a Defeasance
Agreement approved as to form and
correctness by the Director of Law,
providing for the establishment of
the Defeasance Fund as a trust fund
in the custody of the Trustee and the
investment, dedication and application of the moneys deposited therein and further providing for the payment to the Trustee of fees and
expenses for its performance of its
duties under the Defeasance Agreement. The determination that the
Defeasance Agreement satisfies the
requirements of this Section shall be
conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Defeasance Agreement by
the Director of Finance. The Director of Finance is further authorized
to sign and deliver agreements,
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, with one or
more institutions, including agreements which will enable the City to
more efficiently structure the Defeasance Fund and thereby maximize
debt service savings and minimize
negative arbitrage. The Director of
Finance is authorized to take such
other actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to accomplish the defeasance of the Defeased Bonds, including without limitation, the retention
of a firm of independent certified
public accountants to verify that the
securities to be deposited in the
Defeasance Fund are of such maturities or redemption dates and interest payment dates, and bear such
interest, as will be sufficient, together with any available cash in the
Defeasance Fund, for the payment of
debt service on the Defeased Bonds.
Section 9. Interest Hedge Agreements. This Council finds that by

2225

7
engaging in interest rate hedging
arrangements with respect to Water
Revenue Bonds, from time to time,
in which different interest costs or
receipts at, between, or among fixed
or floating interest rates, including
at different floating interest rates,
are exchanged on stated amounts
with reference to Water Revenue
Bonds, the City may reduce its cost
of borrowing or optimize the relative amounts of its fixed and variable rate obligations or minimize
the risk of variations in its debt service costs. To permit the City to
have the flexibility to undertake
interest rate swaps, swap options,
rate caps, rate collars and other
hedging transactions with respect to
Water Revenue Bonds, from time to
time, and to establish the procedures
for approving those transactions,
this Council authorizes the signing
and delivery of one or more agreements (each, a “Hedge Agreement”)
in anticipation of the issuance of
the 2007 Bonds or subsequent to the
issuance of any Outstanding Revenue Bonds and further authorizes
the signing and delivery of any
related agreements necessary for
the consummation of the transactions contemplated by each Hedge
Agreement. The authorizations in
this Section 9 are supplemental to
and not in derogation of any authority provided by any other ordinance
of this Council concerning hedging
arrangements.
Upon the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that it is to the financial advantage of the City and in the City’s
best
interests
that
a
hedging
arrangement be undertaken by the
City with respect to any Outstanding Revenue Bonds or any Series of
2007 Bonds, the Director of Finance
may authorize one or more interest
rate hedge transactions in accordance with the applicable Hedge
Agreement; provided that (a) the
counterparty shall be rated at the
time of signing the Hedge Agreement not lower than A+ or A1 by
at least one rating agency or its
obligations under the Hedge Agreement shall be guaranteed or insured
by an entity rated at the time of
signing the Hedge Agreement not
lower than A+ or A1 by at least one
rating agency, and (b) the term of
each hedge transaction shall not
exceed the final maturity of the
Bonds to which the hedge relates or
(in the case of an option or forward
delivery) will relate.
The Director of Finance shall
negotiate the terms of each Hedge
Agreement with a counterparty satisfying the credit criteria in this
Ordinance. The City shall receive a
written opinion of a Financial Advisor that the upfront payment or the
periodic payments, as the case may
be, to be made by the counterparty
to the City, or by the City to the
counterparty, shall be fair value for
the Hedge Agreement, given the
credit of the counterparty and the
terms and conditions of the Hedge
Agreement. The Director of Finance
shall determine the terms and conditions
of
the
Hedge
Agreement,
including without limitation, the
time or times and procedures for the
exercise by the counterparty or the

8
City, as the case may be, of any
option under the Hedge Agreement,
whether the obligations of the City
under the Hedge Agreement shall be
secured by a Credit Support Instrument, and the rates to be paid by the
counterparty to the City and by the
City to the counterparty under the
Hedge Agreement. The approval of
each hedge transaction by the Director of Finance shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing and delivery of the applicable Hedge Agreement by the Director of Finance.
The City’s obligations under any
Hedge Agreement shall be payable
from the Net Revenues of the Utility (each term as defined in the
Indenture) and may be secured by
a pledge of the Net Revenues on a
parity with the pledge given under
the Indenture to secure Bonds, subject to the requirements of Article
XI of the Indenture with respect to
Parity Obligations. The obligation
of the City to make payments under
a Hedge Agreement does not and
shall not represent or constitute a
general obligation, debt, bonded
indebtedness or a pledge of the faith
and credit of the City. Nothing shall
give any party to a Hedge Agreement the right to have excises, ad
valorem or other taxes levied by the
City or the State for the payment of
any amounts due under a Hedge
Agreement.
Section 10. Covenants of the City.
The City, by issuance of the 2007
Bonds, covenants and agrees with
the Holders of the 2007 Bonds, that:
(a) The City will use the proceeds
of the 2007 Bonds to pay costs of
improvements to the Waterworks
System, to refinance any Refunded
Bonds, to fund any required deposit
to the Debt Service Reserve Fund, if
and to the extent set forth in the
Certificate of Award, to pay interest
on the 2007 Bonds during construction of the improvements financed
by the 2007 Bonds, and to pay costs
relating to the issuance of the 2007
Bonds and the refunding of any
Refunded Bonds.
(b) The Clerk, or other appropriate officer of the City, will furnish
to the Original Purchasers and to
the Trustee a true transcript of proceedings, certified by the Clerk or
other officer, of all proceedings had
with reference to the issuance of the
2007 Bonds, together with information from the City's records as is
necessary to determine the regularity and validity of the issuance of
the 2007 Bonds.
(c) The City will, at any and all
times, cause to be done all such further acts and things and cause to be
signed and delivered all further
instruments as may be necessary to
carry out the purpose of the 2007
Bonds and this Ordinance or as may
be required by Section 13, Article
XVIII of the Constitution of Ohio or
the Charter of the City or the Indenture or the applicable Supplemental
Indenture and will comply with all
requirements of law applicable to
the Waterworks System and the
operation thereof.
(d) The City will observe and perform all its agreements and obligations provided for in the 2007 Bonds,
this Ordinance, the Indenture and
each Supplemental Indenture. All of
the obligations under this Ordinance
and the Indenture and each Supple-

The City Record
mental Indenture are hereby established
as
duties
specifically
enjoined by law and resulting from
an office, trust or station upon the
City within the meaning of Section
2731.01, Ohio Revised Code.
(e) The City will use, and will
restrict the use and investment of,
the proceeds of the 2007 Bonds in
such manner and to such extent as
may be necessary so that (a) the
2007 Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Code or (ii) be
treated other than as bonds to which
Section 103(a) of the Code applies,
and (b) the interest thereon will not
be treated as an item of tax preference under Section 57 of the Code.
(f) The City covenants that (a) it
will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it
for the interest on the 2007 Bonds to
be and to remain excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes, (b) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions
that would adversely affect that
exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting for it, will, among other acts of
compliance, (i) apply the proceeds
of the 2007 Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing,
(ii) restrict the yield on investment
property acquired with those proceeds, (iii) make timely rebate payments to the federal government,
(iv) maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of proceeds, and, as applicable, of property financed with such proceeds, all
in such manner and to the extent
necessary to assure such exclusion
of that interest under the Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the 2007 Bonds
is also made with respect to all
issues for which any portion of the
debt service is paid from proceeds
of the 2007 Bonds (and, if different,
the original issue and any refunding issues in a Series of refundings), to the extent such compliance
is necessary to assure exclusion of
interest on the 2007 Bonds from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes,
and
the
Director
of
Finance, or any other officer having
responsibility with respect to the
2007 Bonds, is authorized to take
such actions with respect to those
issues as they are authorized in this
section to take with respect to the
2007 Bonds.
The
Mayor,
the
Director
of
Finance or any other appropriate
officer of the City is authorized (a)
to make or effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent,
approval or waiver on behalf of the
City with respect to the 2007 Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation, any of the elections
available under Section 148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting the favorable tax treatment or status of the
2007 Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting
compliance
with
requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense of compliance, reducing the rebate amount
or payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as

2226

December 6, 2006
rebate, or obviating those amount or
payments, as determined by that
officer, (b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
2007 Bonds, and (c) to give one or
more appropriate certificates of the
City, for inclusion in the transcript
of proceedings for the 2007 Bonds,
setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City regarding the
amount and use of all the proceeds
of the 2007 Bonds, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment or status of the 2007
Bonds and interest thereon.
Section 11. Authorization of Bond
Rating and Credit Enhancement. If,
in the judgment of the Director of
Finance, the filing of applications
for one or more ratings on the 2007
Bonds by one or more nationally recognized rating agencies and for
Credit Support Instruments is necessary or desirable for marketing
purposes, the Director of Finance is
authorized to prepare and submit
any or all of those applications, to
provide information as may be
required in support of those applications and to provide for the payment of the costs of ratings and
Credit Support Instruments from
proceeds of the 2007 Bonds or funds
of the Water Division, which are
appropriated for the purpose.
Section 12. Official Statements;
Continuing Disclosure. The Director
of Finance, the Director of Public
Utilities,
the
Commissioner
of
Water, and other City officials as
deemed appropriate, each are authorized, on behalf of the City and in
their official capacities, to (i) prepare or cause to be prepared, and
make or authorize modifications,
completions or changes of or supplements to, disclosure documents in
the form of a preliminary official
statement relating to the issuance of
the 2007 Bonds of one or more
Series, and (ii) determine, and certify or otherwise represent, when
each preliminary official statement
as so prepared is a “deemed final”
official statement (except for permitted omissions) by the City as of
its date for purposes of Securities
and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
Rule 15c2-12(b)(1). The distribution
and use of one or more preliminary
official statements are authorized
and approved.
Those officers and each of them
are also authorized, on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities,
to complete each preliminary official statement with such modifications, changes and supplements as
those
officers
shall
approve
or
authorize for the purpose of preparing and determining, and to certify
or otherwise represent, that the official statement as so revised is a
final official statement for purposes
of SEC Rule 15c2-12(b) (3) and (4).
Those officers each are further
authorized to use and distribute, or
authorize the use and distribution
of, one or more final official statements and supplements thereto in
connection with the original issuance of the 2007 Bonds as may, in

December 6, 2006
their judgment, be necessary or
appropriate. Those officers each are
further authorized to sign and deliver, on behalf of the City and in their
official capacities, each final official statement and such certificates
in connection with the accuracy of
each preliminary official statement
and each final official statement
and any amendments thereto as
may, in their judgment, also be necessary or appropriate. The Director
of Finance is authorized to contract
for services for the production and
distribution of preliminary and final
official statements, including by
printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the 2007 Bonds, the City agrees,
in accordance with, and as an obligated person with respect to the 2007
Bonds under, SEC Rule 15c2-12, to
provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of SEC
Rule 15c2-12. In order to describe
and specify certain terms of the
City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that purpose, and thereby
to
implement
that
agreement,
including provisions for enforcement, amendment and termination,
the Director of Finance and the
Director of Public Utilities are
authorized to prepare, or cause to be
prepared, and to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
a continuing disclosure agreement
or certificate, which shall constitute
the continuing disclosure agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the 2007 Bonds in accordance with
SEC Rule 15c2-12. The performance
of that agreement shall be subject
to the availability of funds and their
annual appropriation to meet costs
the City would be required to incur
to perform it.
Section 13. Authorization of Other
Documents.
To
provide
for
the
issuance and sale of the 2007 Bonds
and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance, the Indenture, each Bond Purchase Agreement, each Supplemental
Indenture, each Escrow Agreement,
any Defeasance Agreement and each
Hedge Agreement , the Mayor, the
Director of Finance and the Director
of Public Utilities, or any one of
them, and such other officers of the
City as may be appropriate, are
authorized and directed to sign,
acknowledge and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, such
documents, certifications and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to issue the 2007 Bonds and to
consummate those transactions.
Section 14. Lien of Pledge. The
Net Revenues of the Utility (as each
term is defined in the Indenture)
are subject to the lien of the pledge
under the Indenture without any
physical delivery of the Net Revenues or further act, and the lien of
such pledge is valid and binding
against all parties having claims of
any kind against the City (irrespective of whether such parties
have notice of such pledge and create a perfected security interest for
all purposes of Chapter 1309, Ohio
Revised Code) without the necessity for separation of delivery of the
Net Revenues or for the filing or
recording of the Indenture or any

The City Record
other resolution or instrument by
which such pledge is created or any
certificate, statement or other document with respect to such pledge.
The pledge of the Net Revenues
under the Indenture shall be effective and the money therefrom and
thereof may be applied to the purposes for which pledged without
necessity for any further act of
appropriation.
Section 15. Financial Advisors and
Consultants.
The
Director
of
Finance may obtain the services of
one or more Financial Advisors,
from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any
of the determinations required by
this Ordinance to be determined by
the Director of Finance or to negotiate any Hedge Agreements. The
Director of Finance may rely on the
written advice of any Financial
Advisor so retained. The Director of
Finance may obtain the services of
one or more feasibility consultants,
from time to time, to provide reports
in connection with the issuance and
sale of any 2007 Bonds or the delivery of any Hedge Agreements concerning the utilization and operation
of the Utility, debt service coverage,
rates and charges or other matters.
Any Financial Advisor or consultant
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent
of the underwriters or counterparties and any other party interested
in the transaction.
Section 16. Appointment of Successor Trustee. The Director of
Finance is authorized to appoint a
successor Trustee in the event that
the current Trustee, U.S. Bank,
National Association, shall resign or
be removed, or be dissolved or otherwise become incapable of acting
as Trustee under the Indenture, or
in case it shall be taken under the
control of any public officer or officers or of a receiver appointed by a
court, in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture.
Section 17. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to the
adoption of this Ordinance were
adopted in an open meeting of this
Council, and that all deliberations of
this Council, and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal
action, were in meetings open to the
public, in compliance with the law.
Section 18. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. The City determines,
represents and recites that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the
issuance of the 2007 Bonds in order
to make the 2007 Bonds legal, valid
and binding obligations of the City
have or will have happened or have
or will have been done and performed in regular and due form as
required by law and the City’s Charter; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation, either statutory
or constitutional, is applicable to the
2007 Bonds or their issuance. It is
further found and determined, and
is represented and recited, that the
provisions of the City’s Charter and
the rules of this Council have been
fully complied with and that this
Ordinance was adopted in conformity therewith.
Section 19. Severability. In case
any section or provision of this Ordi-

2227

9
nance, or in case any covenant, stipulation, obligation, agreement, act or
action made, assumed or taken under
this Ordinance, is for any reason
held to be illegal or invalid, or is at
any time inoperable by reason of any
law, that illegality or inoperability
shall not affect any other section or
provision of this Ordinance, or any
other covenant, stipulation, obligation, agreement, act or action made,
assumed or taken under this Ordinance. This Ordinance shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal or invalid or inoperable portion
were not contained in it. Any such
illegality or invalidity or inoperability shall not affect any legal and
valid and operable application from
time to time, and each such section,
provision, covenant, stipulation, obligation, agreement, act or action shall
be deemed to be effective, operative,
made or taken in the manner and to
the full extent from time to time permitted by law.
Section 20. Effective Date. This
Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure for the reasons set
forth in the preambles. Those preambles are made a part hereof. Provided that this ordinance receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all members elected to this Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest date
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 2046-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of keys, locks,
and hardware, for the various divisions of City government.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the term of one or two years for the
necessary items of keys, locks, and
hardware
in
the
approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the various
divisions of City government. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any
combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire term. The Director of Finance
is authorized to enter into one or
more contracts with a term of two
years instead of one year when
there is a financial advantage to the
City. For purposes of this ordinance,

10
a financial advantage shall be determined by the Director of Finance by
comparing the bids received for both
terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 118770)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 2047-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of exterminating services, for the various divisions of City government.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one or two years of the
necessary items of exterminating
services, in the approximate amount
as purchased during the preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the various divisions of City government. Bids shall
be taken in a manner that permits
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Finance is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with a term of two years
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Finance by comparing the bids received for both
terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against

The City Record
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 118770)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 2048-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials needed to maintain and
repair overhead doors, for the various divisions of City government.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the term of one year or two years
for the necessary items of labor and
materials needed to maintain and
repair overhead doors in the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis for the
various divisions of City government. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Finance is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with a term of two years
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Finance by comparing the bids received for both
terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 118770)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

2228

December 6, 2006
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 2049-06.
By Council Members Kelley, Brady,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to
the County Commissioners of Cuyahoga County for the rehabilitation
of Pearl Road Bridge No. 118 over
Big Creek, Norfolk Southern Railroad and CSX Railroad; authorizing
the Director of Public Service to
enter into any relative agreements;
to apply for and accept an allocation
of
County
Motor
Vehicle
License Tax Funds for the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be
in the public interest that the consent of the City of Cleveland is
given to the Board of County Commissioners (the “County”) to construct the following improvement
under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the County: the
rehabilitation of Pearl Road Bridge
No. 118 over Big Creek, Norfolk
Southern Railroad and CSX Railroad
(the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City proposes
to cooperate with the County in the
cost of the Improvement to the
extent of funds received by an allocation from the County Motor Vehicle $5.00 License Tax Fund; and by
applying to the Board of County
Commissioners to use the License
Tax Fund for the Improvement.
However, the City agrees to assume
and contribute 100% of the cost of
any items included in the construction contract, at the request of the
City, which are determined by the
County not eligible or made necessary by the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
County necessary to complete the
planning and construction of the
Improvement,
which
agreements
shall contain terms and conditions
that the Director of Law determines
shall best protect the public interest.
Section 4. That on completion of
the Improvement, the City will:
(a) Keep the affected highway
open to traffic at all times;
(b) Maintain the Improvement according to the provisions of the
statutes relating thereto and make
ample financial and other provisions
for the maintenance;
(c) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstruction in a manner satisfactory to the County and
hold the right-of-way inviolate for
public highway purposes and permit
no signs, posters, billboards, roadside stands, or other private installations within the limits of the
right-of-way;
(d) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices under the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices under the provisions of Section
4511.11 and related sections of the
Revised Code;

December 6, 2006
(e) Follow and maintain post-construction Best Management Practices as outlined in the Municipal
Storm Water Permit that is filed
with the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency; and
(f) Prohibit all parking within the
limits of the roadway which is a
part of the Improvement under Section 4511.66 of the Revised Code,
unless otherwise controlled by City
ordinance or resolution.
Section 5. (a) That all existing
streets
and
public
rights-of-way
within the City that are necessary
for the Improvement shall be made
available.
(b) That in the event any additional right-of-way is required for
the Improvement the County will
arrange for its acquisition.
(c) That the County shall continue to maintain the structural elements of any bridge (defined as a
structure with a span of twenty (20)
feet or greater) within the limits of
the Improvement under applicable
sections of the Revised Code.
(d) That the street within the limits of the Improvement is designated a through highway within the
meaning of division (F) of Section
4511.07 of the Revised Code.
(e) That arrangements have been
or will be made with and agreements obtained from all utility companies whose lines or structures will
be affected by the Improvement.
That the companies have agreed to
make
any
and
all
necessary
rearrangements in such manner as
to be clear of any construction
called for by the plans for the
Improvement. That the companies
have agreed to make necessary
rearrangements immediately after
notification by the City.
(f) That the City, at its own
expense, shall make all rearrangements of water mains, service lines,
fire hydrants, valve boxes, sanitary
sewers, or other City-owned utilities
and appurtenances which do not
comply with the provisions of ODOT
Directive No. 28-A, whether inside or
outside the corporate limits of the
City, as may be necessary to conform to the Improvement.
(g) That the County will participate in the costs of alterations of
governmentally-owned utility facilities which come within the provisions of ODOT Directive No. 28-A to
the same extent that it participates
in the other costs of the Improvement, provided that such participation will not extend to additions or
betterments of existing facilities.
(h) That the construction, reconstruction, and rearrangement of all
utilities shall be done in a manner
as not to interfere unduly with the
operations of the contractor or contractors constructing the Improvement, and all backfilling of trenches made necessary by utility rearrangement shall be performed
under the provisions of the ODOT
Construction and Material Specifications.
(i) If applicable, that stop signs
affecting the movement of traffic on
any street within the limits of the
Improvement shall be removed and
no stop signs will be erected except
at
intersections
with
another
through highway where traffic does
not warrant the installation of a

The City Record
traffic control signal but where the
warrants for a “Four-Way Stop” as
provided in the aforesaid manual
are met.
(j) That no rule or regulation may
be enacted restricting the use of the
Improvement by any class of vehicle or vehicle load permitted by the
Revised code to use a public highway. Any existing rule or regulation
so restricting road usage is rescinded.
Section 6. That this Council requests the County to proceed with
the Improvement.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into an agreement with the County
concerning the financing of the
Improvement,
which
agreement
shall
contain
without
limitation
terms substantially similar to the
following:
(a) That the County will arrange
for the preparation of construction
plans and specifications for the
Improvement, including necessary
engineering reports, under current
Cuyahoga County standards for construction
of
County
roads
and
bridges.
(b) That the County will arrange
for the supervision and administration of the construction contract for
the Improvement, and will review
the construction plans for conformance with division (a) of this section, and make an inspection of the
completed project.
(c) That if, by ordinance of this
Council, the City requests the County, to include in the Improvement
the construction of sanitary sewers,
water lines, sewers for drainage of
the area surrounding the Improvement,
sidewalks,
alternate
bid
items or other items that are in
addition to those now existing in
the plans for the Improvement and
not provided for elsewhere in the
agreement, the County will do so,
provided that the construction of
the additional items are approved
by the County and the City, and
provided
further
that
the
City
agrees to pay or cause to be paid
the cost of the additional construction and of preliminary and design
engineering, but the City shall not
be responsible for the cost of supervision of the additional construction.
(d) That the City agrees to participate with the County in the cost
of the Improvement by an allocation
from the County Motor Vehicle
License Tax Fund to pay the County portion of the Improvement.
(e) That if the Improvement is
financed as a Federal-aid project,
eligible costs of the Improvement
shall be financed from the funds.
Section 8. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to apply
to the County for an allocation from
the County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Fund to pay the County portion
of the Improvement, and to enter
into one or more agreements with
the County as are necessary to
finance the Improvement.
Section 9. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to
transmit to the County three (3) certified copies of this ordinance immediately on its taking effect, and it
shall become the basis for proceeding with the Improvement.

2229

11
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 2050-06.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with Cognos Corporation to acquire
one or more software licenses and
software license maintenance necessary for operation of Cognos’ Financial Information System, including
server licenses and other as-needed
software licenses, and professional
services for as-needed consulting
and support services, including but
not limited to training and knowledge transfer, necessary to augment, support, and further enhance
the system.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with Cognos Corporation to acquire
one or more software licenses and
software license maintenance necessary for operation of Cognos’ Financial Information System software
currently in use by the Division of
Water, including server licenses for
a development/test dual processor
server and other as-needed software
licenses, and professional services
for as-needed consulting and support
services, including but not limited to
training and knowledge transfer
services, necessary to augment, support, and further enhance the system on the basis of its proposal
dated November 8, 2006, in the total
aggregate sum of $70,000, for the
Department of Public Utilities. The
contract or contracts shall be paid
from Fund No. 52 SF 001, Request
No. 176718.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into any third-party software
license agreements necessary to
effectuate the purposes of this ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.

12
Ord. No. 2051-06.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to extend the
Citywide VOIP communication system, including but not limited to
equipment, cables, cabling, installation, and training, necessary to relocate the Downtown One Stop Career
Center to 1020 Bolivar, for the Department of Economic Development.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to make one or more written
requirement contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the
requirements for a one year period
of the necessary items of labor and
materials necessary to extend the
Citywide VOIP communication system, including but not limited to
equipment, cables, cabling, installation, and training, necessary to relocate the Downtown One Stop Career
Center to 1020 Bolivar, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Department of Economic Development. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 148554)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Economic Development
may sign all documents with the
State of Ohio or any of its political
subdivisions that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

The City Record
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 2052-06.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from LNE & Associates, LLC
for the PROES - Building HOPE Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to apply for and accept a
grant in the amount of $54,439.00,
from LNE & Associates, LLC to
conduct the PROES - Building
HOPE Program; that the Director
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the
pre-award agreement for the grant
contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the pre-award agreement for the grant, File No. 2052-06A, made a part of this ordinance as
if fully rewritten, as presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
the public hearing on this legislation,
is approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 2053-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a development agreement with The K & D
Group or its designee, for the redevelopment of 2019 Center Street into
residential units, office space, retail
space, parking and streetscape.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Director of Community Development is authorized to enter into a
development agreement with The K
& D Group, or its designee, for the
redevelopment of 2019 Center Street
into residential units, office space,
retail
space,
structured
parking
spaces and streetscape.

2230

December 6, 2006
Section 2. That the terms of the
development agreement, as presented to the Finance Committee of this
Council at the public hearing on this
legislation contained in File No.
2053-06-A, are made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten herein, may not be changed without
additional legislative authority, and
are approved in all respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 2054-06.
By Council Member Pierce Scott.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on scattered sites to
Greater
Cleveland
Habitat
for
Humanity.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 105-30-021 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Greater
Cleveland
Habitat
for
Humanity.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 105-30-021
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being parts of
Sublot Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4 in John T.
Avery’s Re-Subdiv-ision of Sublots
“A” 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, of John T.
Avery’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 348
and 350 as shown by the recorded
plat of said Re-Subdivision in Volume 17 of Maps, Page 26 of Cuyahoga County Records and together
forming a parcel of land bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning in the Westerly line of
East 79th Street at the Northeasterly corner of a parcel of land con-

December 6, 2006
veyed to Margaret Cowin, by Warranty Deed dated June 11, 1903 and
recorded in Volume 887, Page 530 of
Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Northerly along the Westerly line of
East 79th Street, 35 feet to a point;
thence Westerly on a line parallel
with the Southerly line of Sublot No.
4, 130 feet to the Westerly line of
Sublot No. 1; thence Southerly along
the Westerly line of Sublot No. 1,
and its Southerly Extension 35 feet
to the Northwesterly corner of land
conveyed to Margaret Cowin, as
aforesaid; thence Easterly along the
Northerly line of said land conveyed
to Margaret Cowin, 130 feet to the
place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 105-30-044 as
more
fully
described
below
to
Greater
Cleveland
Habitat
for
Humanity.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 105-30-044
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
26 in the J.T. Avery’s Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 348 and 350, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 17 of
Maps, Page 26 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 35 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 79th Street
(formerly Woolsey Street) and extending back of equal width 130
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to Restrictions records in
Volume 541, Page 176 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Subject to Restrictions records in
Volume 657, Page 438 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 105-30-156 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Greater
Cleveland
Habitat
for
Humanity.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 105-30-156
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and bound and described as
follows: And known as being Sublot
No. 8 in W. M Goebeille’s Re-Subdivision of Sublot Nos. 44 and 51
inclusive in Glenn, Hodge and Taylor’s Allotment of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 348, as
shown by the recorded plat of said
Re-Subdivision in Volume 13 of
Maps, Page 28 of Cuyahoga County
Records. Said Sublot No 8 has a
frontage of 34 feet on the Easterly
side of East 74th Street (formerly
Hodge Avenue), and extends back
between parallel lines 175 feet as

The City Record
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 105-30-159 as
more fully described, to Greater
Cleveland Habitat for Humanity.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 105-30-159
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot
No. 5 in W.M. Gobeille’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 348, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 13 of
Maps, Page 28 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 34 feet front
on the Easterly side of East 74th
Street and extending back of equal
width, 175 feet deep, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 107-02-027 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Greater
Cleveland
Habitat
for
Humanity.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 107-02-027
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
39 in W.H. Lawrence’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot Nos. 367 and 375, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 15
of Maps, Page 2 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40 feet front
on the Easterly side of Maude
Avenue and extending back between parallel lines 110 feet deep,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 107-02-065 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Greater
Cleveland
Habitat
for
Humanity.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 107-02-065
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
No. 139 in W.H. Lawrence’s Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot Nos. 367 and 375, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 15 of Maps, Page 2 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and being 40 feet
front on the Westerly side of Ansel
Road, N.E., and extending back
between parallel lines 110 feet, as

2231

13
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 107-02-071 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Greater
Cleveland
Habitat
for
Humanity.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 107-02-071
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
133 in W.H. Lawrence’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 367 and 375, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 15 of
Maps, Page 2 of Cuyahoga County
Records, said Sublot No. 133 has a
frontage of 40 feet on the Southwesterly side of Ansel Road, N.E.,
(formerly Ansel Avenue) and extends back between lines 110 feet,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 15. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 16. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 17. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 18. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

14
Ord. No. 2055-06.
By Council Member White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Gaylord Avenue to
Union Miles Development Corporation.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 136-13-069 as
more fully described below, to Union
Miles Development Corporation.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 136-13-069
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
8 in Lucy M. Gaylord's Subdivision
of part of Original 100 Acre Lot No.
465, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 48 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
being 64 feet front on the Northerly
side of Gaylord Avenue, S.E., (formerly Spring Street) and extending
back of equal width 160 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 136-13-078 as
more fully described below to Union
Miles Development Corporation.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 136-13-078
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and bounded and described as
follows to wit: and known as being
the Westerly 32 feet of Sublot No.
26 in Lucy M. Gaylord Subdivision
of part of Original 100 Acre Lot No.
465 as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 48 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
being 32 feet front on the Souther-

The City Record
ly side of Gaylord Avenue and
extending back of equal width 177
feet as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, together with
all the hereditament and appurtenances thereof, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 136-13-081 as
more fully described below, to Union
Miles Development Corporation.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 136-13-081
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly 50 feet of Sublot No. 24 in Lucy
M. Gaylord Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
465 as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 48 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
being 50 feet front on the Southerly
side of Gaylord Avenue and extending back of equal width 177 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 136-15-013 as
more fully described, to Union Miles
Development Corporation.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 136-15-013
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublot No. 24 in E. F. Collins’ Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 465, 466, as
shown by the recorded plat of said
Subdivision in Volume 8 of Maps,
Page
13
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning in the Northerly line
of Gaylord Avenue, S.E. (formerly
Spring Street) at a point distant 16
feet Easterly, measured along said
Northerly line, from the Southwesterly corner of said Sublot No. 24;
thence Northerly parallel with the
Westerly line of said Sublot No. 24,
145 feet to the Northerly line thereof;
thence
Easterly
along
said
Northerly line of Sublot No. 24,
about 4 feet to the Westerly right
of way line of The Wheeling and
Lake
Erie
Railway
Company;
thence Southerly along said Westerly right of way line, to the
Northerly line of Gaylord Avenue,
S.E. thence Westerly, along said
Northerly line of Gaylord Avenue,
about 34 feet to the place of beginning, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less but subject
to all legal highways.

2232

December 6, 2006
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 136-15-014 as
more fully described below, to Union
Miles Development Corporation.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 136-15-014
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly 19 feet front to rear of Sublot
No. 25 and the Westerly 8 feet from
front to rear of Sublot No. 24 in E.F.
Collin’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot Nos. 465
and 466, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 8 of Maps, Page 13
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
together forming a parcel of land 27
feet front on the Northerly side of
Spring Street (now known as Gaylord Avenue) and extending back of
equal
width
145
feet
deep,
as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 11. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 12. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 13. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 14. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

December 6, 2006
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE READ IN FULL
AND TO BE PASSED
Ord. No. 1761-A-06 (As a substitute
for Ord. No. 1761-06).
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
limit the number of taxi cabs at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport by one of the following
options: 1) issue permits for a fee to
taxi cab companies to operate outbound services from the airport; or
2) enter into an agreement with a
third-party taxi management concessionaire to manage outbound services and issue permits at the airport; or 3) enter into a concession
agreement for the operation of an
exclusive outbound taxicab concession at the Airport; and authorizing
one or more contracts with one or
more advertising firms for marketing and promotional services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Director of Port
Control (“Director”) is authorized to
limit the number of taxi cabs at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport (“Airport”) by one of the following options: 1) issue permits for
a fee to taxi cab companies to operate outbound services from the airport; or 2) enter into an agreement
with a third-party taxi management
concessionaire to manage outbound
services and issue permits at the
airport; or 3) enter into a concession
agreement for the operation of an
exclusive outbound taxicab concession at the Airport.
Section 2. The Director is authorized as an option to issue permits
for a fee to taxi cab companies to
operate outbound services from the
Airport. These permits are required
in addition to any requirements in
Chapter 443 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976. The
Director is authorized to promulgate
rules and regulations governing the
issuance of the permits, including
the number of permits to be issued.
The fee for this permit shall be set
by the Board of Control.
Section 3. The Director is authorized as an option to enter into an
agreement with a third-party taxi
management concessionaire to manage outbound services and issue permits at the Airport. The fee for these
permits shall be set by the Board of
Control. The cost for such services
shall be paid for from fund numbers
60-001, 60-0104, 60-0105, and/or 60-0106.
The agreement shall be for a period
not to exceed five years, with one
option to renew for a period up to
five years, exercisable by the Director after legislative approval of
Council. The agreement shall be prepared by the Director of Law and
approved by the Director, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 4. That the Director is
authorized as an option to employ
by
a
concession
agreement
or
agreements a taxi company in

The City Record
order to provide services necessary
to operate an exclusive outbound
taxicab concession at the Airport.
The selection of services shall be
made by the Board of Control upon
the nomination of the Director from
a list of qualified providers available for such employment as may
be determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director for
the purpose of compiling such a
list. The compensation to be paid
for such services shall be fixed by
the Board of Control. The agreement shall be for a period not to
exceed five years, with one option
to renew for a period up to five
years, exercisable by the Director
after legislative approval of Council. The agreement shall be prepared by the Director of Law and
approved by the Director.
Section 5. That the Director is
authorized to enter into one or more
agreements with one or more advertising firms for marketing and promotional services for, but not limited to, the advertising to be placed
on taxi vehicles operating under an
Advertising Agreement. The Advertising Agreement shall provide that
all revenues from the marketing,
promotion, or advertising shall be
paid directly to the City.
Section 6. That the Director is
authorized to establish Airport fare
rates for taxi vehicles for the purpose
of
transporting
passengers
from the Airport to another location.
Any agreements authorized by this
ordinance shall comply with the
City
of
Cleveland’s
MBE/FBE
requirements and all relevant Federal laws, rules, and requirements,
including DBE requirements.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Without objection substitute Ordinance agreed to. Ordinance No. 176106 laid on the table pursuant to the
Rules of Council.
Motion to suspend the rules, Charter and statutory provisions and
place Ordinance No. 1761-A-06 on
final passage. Yeas 18. Nays 2.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members Sweeney, Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland, Coats,
Conwell, Cummins, Johnson, Kelley,
Lewis, Pierce Scott, Polensek, Santiago, Turner, Westbrook, White and
Zone.
Those voting nay were: Council
Members Dolan and Reed.
Absent: Council Member Britt.
Ordinance No. 1761-A-06 read second time.
Motion to delete “or agreements”
from Section 4, line 2.
Without
objection
amendment
agreed to. Seconded and passed.
Ordinance No. 1761-A-06 read third
time, in full, as amended. Passed.
Yeas 12. Nays 8.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members Sweeney, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Coats, Conwell, Johnson, Kelley, Lewis, Pierce Scott, Santiago,
Turner and White.

2233

15
Those voting nay were: Council
Members Brady, Cimperman, Cummins, Dolan, Polensek, Reed, Westbrook and Zone.
Absent: Council Member Britt.
Pursuant to Charter Section 36
and Rule 40 of the Rules of Council, emergency ordinances must pass
by a two-thirds vote of the members
of Council; if an emergency ordinance does not receive a two-thirds
affirmative vote of all members of
Council, the ordinance shall cease to
be before the Council as an emergency measure and shall have the
standing that a measure would have
had if it had not been read as an
emergency measure.
FIRST READING ORDINANCE
READ IN FULL AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1761-A-06 (As a substitute
for Ord. No. 1761-06).
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney.
An
ordinance
authorizing
the
Director of Port Control to limit the
number of taxi cabs at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport by
one of the following options: 1)
issue permits for a fee to taxi cab
companies to operate outbound services from the airport; or 2) enter
into an agreement with a third-party
taxi management concessionaire to
manage outbound services and issue
permits at the airport; or 3) enter
into a concession agreement for the
operation of an exclusive outbound
taxicab concession at the Airport;
and authorizing one or more contracts with one or more advertising
firms for marketing and promotional services.
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Director of Port
Control (“Director”) is authorized to
limit the number of taxi cabs at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport (“Airport”) by one of the following options: 1) issue permits for
a fee to taxi cab companies to operate outbound services from the airport; or 2) enter into an agreement
with a third-party taxi management
concessionaire to manage outbound
services and issue permits at the
airport; or 3) enter into a concession
agreement for the operation of an
exclusive outbound taxicab concession at the Airport.
Section 2. The Director is authorized as an option to issue permits
for a fee to taxi cab companies to
operate outbound services from the
Airport. These permits are required
in addition to any requirements in
Chapter 443 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976. The
Director is authorized to promulgate
rules and regulations governing the
issuance of the permits, including
the number of permits to be issued.
The fee for this permit shall be set
by the Board of Control.
Section 3. The Director is authorized as an option to enter into an
agreement with a third-party taxi
management concessionaire to manage outbound services and issue permits at the Airport. The fee for
these permits shall be set by the
Board of Control. The cost for such

16
services shall be paid for from fund
numbers
60-001,
60-0104,
60-0105,
and/or 60-0106. The agreement shall
be for a period not to exceed five
years, with one option to renew for
a period up to five years, exercisable by the Director after legislative
approval of Council. The agreement
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law and approved by the Director,
and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 4. That the Director is
authorized as an option to employ
by a concession agreement a taxi
company in order to provide services
necessary to operate an exclusive
outbound taxicab concession at the
Airport. The selection of services
shall be made by the Board of Control upon the nomination of the
Director from a list of qualified
providers available for such employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director for the purpose of compiling such a list. The compensation
to be paid for such services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
agreement shall be for a period not
to exceed five years, with one option
to renew for a period up to five
years, exercisable by the Director
after legislative approval of Council.
The agreement shall be prepared by
the Director of Law and approved
by the Director.
Section 5. That the Director is
authorized to enter into one or more
agreements with one or more advertising firms for marketing and promotional services for, but not limited to, the advertising to be placed
on taxi vehicles operating under an
Advertising Agreement. The Advertising Agreement shall provide that
all revenues from the marketing,
promotion, or advertising shall be
paid directly to the City.
Section 6. That the Director is
authorized to establish Airport fare
rates for taxi vehicles for the purpose
of
transporting
passengers
from the Airport to another location.
Any agreements authorized by this
ordinance shall comply with the
City of Cleveland’s MBE/FBE requirements and all relevant Federal
laws, rules, and requirements, including DBE requirements.
Section 7. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 2059-06.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into contract with Iron Mountain
National Underground Storage for
professional records and information
management services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized to enter into
contract with Iron Mountain National Underground Storage for profes-

The City Record
sional records and information management services, including document storage, document inventory
and document relocation, on the
basis of their proposal dated November 28, 2006.
Section 2. That the term of this
agreement begins as of October 1,
2006 and expires on September 30,
2007, with the option to renew for
four additional one (1) year terms,
exercisable by the Clerk of Council.
The cost of the initial term of the
contract shall not exceed $54,000 and
shall be paid from Fund No. 01 SF
001.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 2056-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
Liquor License of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 2123 East 2nd
Street, and repealing Resolution No.
1770-06, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 2123
East 2nd Street by Resolution No.
1770-06 adopted by the Council on
October 23, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of liquor license and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to Richard
Giamori, DBA Tavern on 2nd Street,
2123 East 2nd Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, Permanent Number 3163030 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1770-06, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.

2234

December 6, 2006
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2057-06.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at
3230 East 93rd Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C2 Liquor Permit at Semaan Marketing, Inc., 3230 East 93rd Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 7974550; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at Semaan Marketing,
Inc., 3230 East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number
7974550; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

December 6, 2006
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2058-06.
By Council Member Turner.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
4344 Lee Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Mamas Lee
Road Beverage, Inc., 4344 Lee Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44128, Permanent
Number 5467713; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Mamas Lee Road
Beverage, Inc., 4344 Lee Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44128, Permanent Number
5467713; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.

The City Record
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1461-06.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 70th Street,
Zoeter and Lawnview Avenues to
New Mount Zion Baptist Church.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1733-06.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 84th Street to
Lillian Roberts.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1847-06.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
Circadian Knight Corp. d/b/a Top
Gun for the lease of office space at
Burke Lakefront Airport for flight
training and related services, for the
Department of Port Control, for a
period of two years, with one option
to renew for an additional two-year
period.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committee on City Planning; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1848-06.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a license agreement with

2235

17
Norfolk Southern Railway Company
to install, construct, operate, maintain, and remove a sewer line on
Norfolk Southern property located at
Milepost CD-192.23.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committee on City Planning; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1849-06.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more agreements
with local, state, and federal agencies and non-profit organizations for
the exchange of, or acceptance of,
services, mutually beneficial promotions, and public service announcements for the purpose of promoting
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport and special events to be held
at either or both airports.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In the title, strike lines 5, 6, 7,
8, 9, 10 in their entirety and insert
the following: “for the use of airport
space for promotional use and to
accept in-kind services, promotions,
or comparable space promoting Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
and Burke Lakefront Airport and
special events to be held at either
or both airports for a period of two
years.”.
2. In Section 1, strike lines 3, 4, 5,
and 6 in their entirety and insert:
“for the use of airport space to promote and highlight the civic and
cultural contributions to the Greater
Cleveland Area by local nonprofit
organizations, for a period of two
years.”.
3. In Section 2, lines 1 and 2,
strike “gifts of services, mutually
beneficial promotions, and public
service announcements from local,”
and insert “in-kind services, promotions, or comparable advertisement
space with local”; and strike lines 5,
6, and 7 in their entirety and insert
“events to be held at either or both
airports. The Board of Control shall
determine that the extent of the use
of space and the services and promotions offered in exchange are of
comparable value.”.
4. Strike Section 3 in its entirety,
and renumber existing Sections 4
and 5 to new “Section 3” and “Section 4”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1852-06.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to

18
lease to the International Women’s
Air and Space Museum, Inc. certain
space at Burke Lakefront Airport,
for a term not to exceed seven
years.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on City Planning; Passage recommended by Committees
on Aviation and Transportation,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1877-06.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts
without competitive bidding with
Medtronic Physio-Control for the
purchase of maintenance of LifePak
12 defibrillators and LifePak 500
automatic external defibrillators, for
the Division of Emergency Medical
Service, Department of Public Safety.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1884-06.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into one or
more contracts with various nonprofit agencies for the implementation of homeless assistance activities; and to enter into one or more
contracts with Cuyahoga County for
the
operation
of
the
Cleveland/Cuyahoga County Office of
Homeless Services.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1892-06.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with The Greater Cleveland
Sports Commission to provide financial assistance to organize and
administer programs for marketing
the City of Cleveland as a venue for
sporting events.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1952-06
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to enter into one or more contracts with Court Community Service for professional services necessary to place criminal defendants in
community service, and for placement in the Cleveland Work Crew
Program, both as referred by the
Court, each for a period of one year,
with a one year option to renew, for
the Cleveland Municipal Court.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
LAID ON THE TABLE
Ord. No. 1074-05.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 185.41 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 794-03,
passed June 10, 2003, relating to
terms of payment.
Ord. No. 1239-06.
By Council Members Reed, Turner,
Cleveland, Santiago, Coats, Conwell,
Polensek, Johnson, Cimperman, Brady
and Dolan.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 171.03 relating to City
of Cleveland mentoring program.
Without objection, Ordinance No.
1074-05 and Ordinance No. 1239-06,
were relieved of further consideration of all committees and laid on
the table pursuant to the Rules of
Council.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Ordinance No. 1074-05 and
Ordinance No. 1239-06, laid on the
table.
MOTION
By Council Member Zone, seconded by Council Member Santiago,
and unanimously carried that the
absence of Council Member Patricia
J. Britt, be and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
9:00 p.m. to meet Monday, December
11, 2006 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chambers.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

2236

December 6, 2006
BOARD OF CONTROL

November 29, 2006
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, November 29,
2006, at 10:30 a.m. with Mayor Jackson presiding.
Present: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director Szabo, Director Wasik, Acting
Director
Bialosky,
Directors
Flask, Cox, Rush, Hutchinson, Reilly, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Absent: None.
Others: Jim Hardy, Commissioner,
Purchases and Supplies.
Debra Linn Talley, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 546-06.
By Director Ciaccia.
Whereas, under Section 129.25 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and Board of Control Resolution No. 284-06, adopted
on July 12, 2006, and Resolution No.
719-04, adopted on December 22, 2004,
the City of Cleveland entered into
City Contracts Nos. 65941 and 63867
with Hughes Supply, Inc. respectively for an estimated quantity of
ductile iron pipe and fittings and
service fittings for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, by letter dated October
27, 2006, HD Supply Waterworks,
Ltd. notified the City of the integration of National Waterworks and
Hughes Supply Water & Sewer into
HD Supply Waterworks, Ltd.; and
Whereas, HD Supply Waterworks,
Ltd. proposes to undertake all obligations of Hughes Supply, Inc. under
City Contracts Nos. 65941 and 63867;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that this Board authorizes the Director of Public Utilities to consent to
the assignment of City Contracts
Nos. 65941 and 63867 from Hughes
Supply, Inc. to HD Supply Waterworks, Ltd.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to execute all documents and
do all things necessary to implement the consent to the assignment
of City Contract Nos. 65941 and
63867 authorized above. A copy of
the consent to assignment and the
assignment of Contract Nos. 65941
and 63867 shall be filed with the
original of each contract in the custody of the Commissioner of Accounts.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director Szabo, Director Wasik, Acting
Director
Bialosky,
Directors
Flask, Cox, Rush, Hutchinson, Reilly, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 547-06.
By Director Ciaccia.
Whereas, under Section 129.25 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and Board of Control Resolution No. 398-06, adopted

December 6, 2006
on August 30, 2006, Resolution No. 906, adopted on January 11, 2006, Resolution
No.
458-05,
adopted
on
August 31, 2005, and Resolution No.
717-04, adopted on December 22, 2004,
the City of Cleveland entered into
City Contracts Nos. 66115, 65347,
64799
and
63871
with
National
Waterworks respectively for an estimated quantity of water meter
parts, valves and appurtenances,
fire-hydrants and hydrant parts and
service fittings for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, letter dated October 27,
2006, HD Supply Waterworks, Ltd.
notified the City of the integration
of National Waterworks and Hughes
Supply Water & Sewer into HD Supply Waterworks, Ltd.; and
Whereas, HD Supply Waterworks,
Ltd. proposes to undertake all obligations of National Waterworks
under City Contracts Nos. 66115,
65347, 64799 and 63871; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that this Board authorizes the Director of Public Utilities to consent to
the assignment of City Contract Nos.
66115, 65347, 64799 and 63871 from
National Waterworks to HD Supply
Waterworks, Ltd.
Be it further resolved that the
Director
of
Public
Utilities
is
authorized to execute all documents and do all things necessary
to implement the consent to the
assignment of City Contract Nos.
66115, 65347, 64799 and 63871 authorized above. A copy of the consent
to assignment and the assignment
of Contract Nos. 66115, 65347, 64799
and 63871 shall be filed with the
original of each contract in the custody of the Commissioner of Accounts.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director Szabo, Director Wasik, Acting
Director
Bialosky,
Directors
Flask, Cox, Rush, Hutchinson, Reilly, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 548-06.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that the bid of Terrace Construction Co. for the public improvement
of Westdale Avenue Sewer Replacement Project, (Base Bid All Items
including the 10% contingency allowance) for the Division of Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, received on September 29, 2006, under the authority of Ordinance No. 872-06, passed
July 12, 2006, upon a unit basis for
the improvement, in the aggregate
amount of $220,477.95 is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter
into contract for the improvement
with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
that the employment of the following subcontractors by Terrace Construction Co. for the above-mentioned public improvement is approved:

The City Record
SUBCONTRACTOR
MBE/FBE
The Vallejo Co.
MBE

19
WORK

$33,075.00
(15.00%)

Rockport Construction
FBE

$11,025.00
(5.00%)

Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director Szabo, Director Wasik, Acting
Director
Bialosky,
Directors
Flask, Cox, Rush, Hutchinson, Reilly, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 549-06.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that the bid of Terrace Construction Co. for the public improvement
of East 128th Street Sewer Replacement Project, (Base Bid All Items
including the 10% contingency allowance) for the Division of Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, received on September 29, 2006, under the authority of Ordinance No. 876-06, passed
July 12, 2006, upon a unit basis for
the improvement, in the aggregate
amount of $138,263.13 is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter
into contract for the improvement
with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
that the employment of the following subcontractors by Terrace Construction Co. for the above-mentioned public improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR
MBE/FBE
The Vallejo Co.
MBE

WORK

$20,750.00
(15.01%)

Rockport Construction
FBE

$ 6,925.00
(5.01%)

Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director Szabo, Director Wasik, Acting
Director
Bialosky,
Directors
Flask, Cox, Rush, Hutchinson, Reilly, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 550-06.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 359-05, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
May 5, 2005, the firm of Richard L.
Bowen + Associates, Inc. (“Consultant”), is selected upon the nomination of the Director of Port Control
from a list of qualified persons or
firms determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Port Control as the firm of consultants available to be employed by
contract to provide design improve-

2237

ments for the terminal restroom renovations, Phase II, for the Department of Port Control.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract
with Richard L. Bowen + Associates, Inc. based upon its proposal
dated September 19, 2006. The compensation for these services shall be
an amount not to exceed $147,692.00.
This contract shall be prepared by
the Director of Law and shall contain such other provisions as the
Director of Law deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
that employment of the following subconsultants by Richard L. Bowen +
Associates, Inc. is approved:
SUB CONSULTANT
AMOUNT
MBE/FBE PARTICIPATION
Roberts Consulting
20.73% MBE

$30,620.00

McKas Consulting
6.96% FBE

$10,276.00

Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director Szabo, Director Wasik, Acting
Director
Bialosky,
Directors
Flask, Cox, Rush, Hutchinson, Reilly, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

The City Record

20
SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, DECEMBER 18, 2006

December 6, 2006

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2006

9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 06-238: 2670 East 37th
Street (Ward 5)
Hans Klemola, owner, appeals
under the authority of Section 76-6
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the
Codified Ordinances from a Notice of
Violation issued by the Building and
Housing Department on October 18,
2006 for the property located at 2670
East 37th Street and failure to comply with the Regulations for Junk
and Wrecking Yards; Walls or
Fences, according to the provisions
of Section 347.06 of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 06-241: 3018 East 55th
Street (Ward 5)
Ian Abrams, d.b.a. The Scrap Yard
LLC appeals under the authority of
Section 76-6 of the Charter of the
City
of
Cleveland
and
Section
329.02(d) of the Codified Ordinances
from being denied a Junk Dealer or
Scrap Metal Processor license on
November 17, 2006 by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses,
upon the disapproval of his license
application by the Building and
Housing Department for the property at 3018 East 55th Street.
Calendar No. 06-242: 17149 St. Clair
Avenue (Ward 11)
Brian Kuhar, d.b.a. All City Recycling, Inc. appeals under the authority of Section 76-6 of the Charter of
the City of Cleveland and Section
329.02(d) of the Codified Ordinances
from being denied a Junk Dealer or
Scrap Metal Processor license on
November 17, 2006 by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses,
upon the disapproval of his license
application by the Building and
Housing Department for the property at 17149 St. Clair Avenue.
Calendar No. 06-243: 7007 Quincy
Avenue (Ward 5)
Gary Gross, d.b.a. Advance Iron
and Metal appeals under the authority of Section76-6 of the Charter of
the City of Cleveland and Section
329.02(d) of the Codified Ordinances
from being denied a Junk Dealer or
Scrap Metal Processor license on
November 21, 2006 by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses,
upon the disapproval of his license
application by the Building and
Housing Department for the property at 7007 Quincy Avenue.
Calendar No. 06-249: 2925 East 55th
Street (Ward 12)
Joseph Immormino, d.b.a. JBI Scrap
Processor, Inc., appeals under the
authority of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the Codified Ordinances from a Notice of Violation
issued by the Building and Housing
Department for the property located
at 2925 East 55th Street and failure
to comply with the provisions of Sections 327.02(C) and 347.06 of the
Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, December 4, 2006, the following appeals
were heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 06-230: 4835 Broadview
Road
Villa Care Realty, owner, and
Scott Soeder, d.b.a. Home Team
Properties, prospective purchaser,
appealed to change from a nursing
home to commercial offices the use
of a two-story brick building in a
Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 06-231: 3420 Paris Avenue
Manuela Rex, owner, appealed to
install a 6' tall ornamental fence in
the front yard setback of a parcel
in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 06-232: 3141 Fulton
Road
Owen Rex appealed to install a 6'
tall ornamental fence in the front
yard setback of a parcel in TwoFamily District.
Calendar No. 06-233: 1844 West 25th
Street
TEG Properties, Inc., owner, and
John Stuchal, prospective tenant,
appealed to change a two-story
building from a store to a restaurant with 28 seats and a staff of 6
employees in a General Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 06-234: 1427 East 45th
Street
Urban Housing Ltd., CLV Lofts,
LLC and Doug Perkowski appealed
to convert a warehouse building to
a 20 unit apartment building in a
Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 06-165: 6104 Carnegie
Avenue
3320 Woodland Avenue Ltd. appealed to erect one 50' high billboard with two 14' x 48' sign faces
on a triangular shaped parcel in the
Midtown Mixed Use District 3; subject to conditions and existing billboard removals.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 06-211: 11805 Forest
Avenue
Audrey Render appealed to expand the use of a one family
dwelling by adding a Type A day
care in a Two-Family District.
The following appeal was Withdrawn:
None.
The following
missed:

appeal

was

Dis-

None.
The following appeal was Postponed:

2238

Calendar No. 06-235: 3470 East 93rd
Street postponed to February 5,
2007.
In Executive Session on December
4, 2006, the following appeals heard
by the Board on November 27, 2006
were adopted and approved.
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 06-229: 2165 West 6th
Street
Jeffrey Kennedy appealed to erect
a three-story two family dwelling in
a Multi-Family District.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 06-226: 3827 East 71st
Street
Vendetta
Brown
appealed
to
change from a store to a carry out
restaurant the front first floor of a
one and two story building in a
Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 06-228: 4514 South Hills
Drive
Paul Moreland appealed to erect a
one-story metal carport in the rear
yard of a dwelling house in a OneFamily District.
Calendar No. 06-159: 485 East 140th
Street
John Masseria and Wade Park
Properties, Ltd., owner, and Michael
Steele, prospective purchaser, appealed to change to a used car sales
lot the use of an existing building
in split zoning between General
Retail Business and Multi-Family
Districts.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on July 3, 2006 were
adopted and approved by the Board
on December 4, 2006:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 06-102: 2094 West 7th
Street
Michael McBride appealed to erect
a three-story single family residence
with an attached garage in a MultiFamily District; subject to condition.
Calendar No. 06-103: 2098 West 7th
Street
Michael
McBride
appealed
to
erect a three-story single family
residence with an attached garage
in a Multi-Family District; subject
to condition.
Calendar No. 06-104: 2100 West 7th
Street
Brian McCreary appealed to erect
a three-story single family residence
with an attached garage in a MultiFamily District.; subject to condition.
Calendar No. 06-105: 2106 West 7th
Street
Brian McCreary appealed to erect
a three-story single family residence with an attached garage in a
Multi-Family District; subject to
condition.
Secretary

The City Record

December 6, 2006
REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
November 29, 2006
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
*

*

*

Docket A-60-06
RE: Appeal of Famous Supply Co.,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 11200 Madison Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — FIRE CODE of the Chief
of the Division of Fire, dated May
11, 2006, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-60-06 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled when the
Board hears from the Fire Prevention Bureau.
*

*

*

Docket A-97-06.
RE: Appeal of Robert Holcepl,
Owner of the Mixed Use — Multiple
Uses
Property
located
on
the
premises known as 2366 West 11th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — ILLEGAL SIGN of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, dated August 2,
2006, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DISMISS the
Notice of Violation dated August 2,
2006 and require that the Appellant
apply for the required permits for
both the building and electrical for
the appendage within two(2) weeks,
and that the appendage will remain;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-99-06.
RE: Appeal of The Legal Aid Society of Cleveland, Owner of the Property located on the premises known
as 1223 West 6th Street from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — ABATEMENT ORDER of the Chief of the
Division of Fire, dated August 21,
2006, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-99-06 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Fire
Prevention Bureau.
*

*

*

Docket A-116-06.
RE: Appeal of Cuyahoga County
of Ohio, Owner of the Property located on the premises known as 4261

Fulton Parkway from an ADJUDICATION ORDER of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, dated November 8, 2006,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance and permit the control requested on the second exit door, with the
provision that the County submits to
the Fire Prevention Bureau an emergency plan. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-119-06.
RE: Appeal of Zum Properties,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 11609 Detroit
Avenue from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, dated September 7, 2006, requiring compliance with the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
No action this date; the docket
will be rescheduled for December 13,
2006.
*

*

*

Docket A-121-06.
RE: Appeal of Goodrich Gannett,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 1400 East
55th Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — HVAC of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, dated October 16, 2006,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance and permit the system to
remain installed and working with
the understanding that there is a
five (5) year warranty on the performance of the system and the
integrity of the piping. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and
seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-124-06.
RE: Appeal of Furman Brown Jr.
C/O Pamela Murray, Owner of the
Property located on the premises
known as 1147 Addison Road from
an ADJUDICATION ORDER of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, dated November
16, 2006, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
Appellants appeal request for occupancy of the second floor in a
framed construction, noting that the
code clearly requires a fully sprinkled building of this construction to
allow that occupancy. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Bradley.

2239

21
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
A-112-06—Mini Maxi Corp.
A-115-06—MRN Partnership.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Gallagher, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
November 15, 2006
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Monday, December 11, 2006
9:00 a.m.
Notice is hereby given to all
interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning will hold a public hearing in
the Mercedes Cotner Committee
Room 217, City Hall, Cleveland,
Ohio, on Monday, December 11,
2006, at 9:00 a.m., to consider the
following ordinances now pending
in the Council:
Ord. No. 1549-06.
By Council Member Coats.
An ordinance changing the Use
Districts of parcels bounded by
Deise Avenue, Maxwell Avenue, Aspinwall Avenue, E. 140th Street and
including portions of Cobalt Avenue
and Saranac Road as shown on the
attached map from Semi-Industry
and General Industry to Residence
Industry (Map Change Number 2192,
Sheet 7).

The City Record

22
Ord. No. 1765-06.
By Council Member Polensek.
An ordinance to change the zoning of property on the south side of
Shawnee Avenue near the intersection of Neff Road and East 185th
Street to a Two Family Residential
District (Map Change No. 2197, Sheet
No. 7).
Ord. No. 1885-06.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of land located on the northwest corner of West 65th Street and
Storer
Avenue,
south
of
Clark
Avenue from General Retail Business to a Shopping Center District
(Map Change Number 2195, Sheet 2).
Ord. No. 1895-06.
By Council Members Britt, Pierce
Scott and Conwell.
An ordinance establishing the University
Circle
Design
District
(UCDD) (Map Change No. 2198,
Sheet Numbers 4, 8 & 9).
Ord. No. 1896-06.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height District of a parcel of land on the south side of Saint
Catherine Avenue near East 93rd
Street shown shaded on the attached
map from Two Family Residential,
a ‘B’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height
District to a General Retail Business
District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’
Height District (Map Change No.
2200, Sheet 6).
Ord. No. 1897-06.
By Council Member Coats.
An ordinance to change the Use
and Area Districts of land on the
east side of East 150th Street north
of Saint Clair Avenue from a Two
Family Residential District, a ‘B’
Area District to a Multi-Family
Residential District and a ‘C’ Area
District (Map Change No. 2201,
Sheet 7).
Ord. No. 1898-06.
By Council Members Cummins and
Cimperman.
An ordinance to change zoning of
land on vacated Jennings Road
north of Beltline Street south of
Interstate 71 from a Two Family
Residential District a ‘B’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height District to a
Unrestricted Industry District, an ‘A’
Area District and a ‘3’ Height District (Map Change No. 2202, Sheet
No. 6).
Ord. No. 1973-06
By Council Member Coats.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height Districts of the
rear half of a parcel of land on the
north side of Euclid Avenue east of
Avalon Road to a Multi-Family Residential District, a ‘D’ Area District
and a ‘3’ Height District (Map
Change Number 2205, Sheet 7).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Joseph C. Cimperman
Chairman
Committee on City Planning
_____
November 29, 2006 and December 6, 2006

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 2006
Labor and Materials Necessary to
Maintain and Repair Elevators,
Escalators
and
Moving
Walkways, for the Various Divisions of
Port Control, Department of Port
Control, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1633-06, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
October 30, 2006.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2006 AT
10:00 A.M., CLEVELAND HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT’S CENTRAL
RECEIVING
BUILDING,
MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM, 19451
FIVE POINTS ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135-3193.
November 29, 2006 and December 6, 2006
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 20, 2006
Demolition and Site Improvements
of Memphis School, for the Department of Building and Housing, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 75706, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, April 24, 2006.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN THE

2240

December 6, 2006
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND/OR MONEY ORDER PAYABLE TO THE CITY OF CLEVELAND.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING, TUESDAY,
DECEMBER 12, 2006 AT 10:00
A.M., DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING & HOUSING ROOM 509, 601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.
13.8kV Transformers, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Section 129.26 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13, 2006 AT
10:00 A.M., CLEVELAND PUBLIC
POWER, 1300 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.
November 29, 2006 and December 6, 2006
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21, 2006
Four Chilled Water Coils, for the
Division of Convention Center and
Stadium, Department of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 106106, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, September 25,
2006.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING, TUESDAY,
DECEMBER 12, 2006 AT 9:00 A.M.,
CLEVELAND CONVENTION CENTER, 500 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE
AND SITE VISIT.
November 29, 2006 and December 6, 2006
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 27, 2006
Consolidated Maintenance Facility –
Phase 2-A-1H210, for the Division
of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1635-06, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
October 9, 2006.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND/OR MONEY ORDER PAYABLE TO THE CITY OF CLEVELAND.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 14, 2006
AT
10:00
A.M.,
CLEVELAND
HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT ENGINEERING BUILDING
6C-24C, CONFERENCE ROOM, 19451
FIVE POINTS ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135-3193.
November 29, 2006 and December 6, 2006

December 6, 2006
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 22, 2006
Moving Services, for the Various
Divisions of City Government,
Department of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1622-06,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, October 23, 2006.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 2006 AT
1:30 P.M., CITY HALL, DIVISION
OF PURCHASES & SUPPLIES,
ROOM, 128, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Purchase of Generator Maintenance
and Repair, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 50106, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, July 13, 2006.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING THURSDAY, DECEMBER 14, 2006 AT
10:00 A.M., DIVISION OF MOTOR
VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, 4150
EAST 49TH STREET, BUILDING
#1, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
Purchase of Material, Labor and
Installation of Wndow Guards, for
the Division of Police, Department
of Public Safety, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1887-05, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, December 5, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 14, 2006
AT 10:00 A.M., SUPPLY UNIT, 2200
WEST 3RD STREET, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44113.
December 6, 2006 and December 13, 2006
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 29, 2006
SANS (Storage Area Network) – (ReBid), for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 101905, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, July 13, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 2006 AT
10:00 A.M., PENTON MEDIA BUILDING, 1300 EAST 9TH STREET,
4TH FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Estimated Quantity of One (1) Fire
Aerial Ladder, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 76205, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, May 9, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21, 2006 AT 1:00
P.M., DIVISION OF MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE BUILDING
#1, 4150 EAST 49TH STREET,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
Service Fittings, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section
129.25 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21, 2006 AT
10:30 A.M., DIVISION OF WATER
DISTRIBUTION
AND
MAINTE-

The City Record
NANCE PIPE REPAIR CONFERENCE ROOM, 4600 HARVARD
AVENUE, NEWBURGH HEIGHTS,
OHIO 44105.
December 6, 2006 and December 13, 2006
FRIDAY, JANUARY 5, 2007
South HVAC Upgrade, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of
Port Control, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 359-05, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, May 2, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND/OR MONEY ORDER PAYABLE TO THE CITY OF CLEVELAND.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 19, 2006
AT 10:00 A.M., CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
ENGINEERING BUILDING 6C-24C,
CONFERENCE ROOM, 19501 FIVE
POINTS ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44135.
December 6, 2006 and December 13, 2006

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 2014-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit at 1027 Fairfield Avenue, and
repealing Resolution No. 1769-06,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Fairfield
Market, Inc., DBA Fairfield Market,
1027 Fairfield Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44113, Permanent No. 2621019,
by Resolution No. 1769-06 adopted
by the Council on October 23, 2006;
and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Fairfield
Market, Inc., DBA Fairfield Market,
1027 Fairfield Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44113,
Permanent
Number
2621019 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 176906, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

2241

23
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

Res. No. 2016-06.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Cummins, Kelley and White.
An emergency resolution calling
upon the English and Irish governments to take immediate steps necessary to bring to fullness the
promises of the All Ireland institutions called for and envisioned by
the Good Friday Agreement; requesting the Irish government to
formally study the implications of a
United Ireland and outline steps fundamental to restore the Irish Nation
and publicly report their finding
and plans; and respectfully suggesting that the Irish government move
without delay to further the peaceful healing of the Irish nation by
granting duly elected northern MP’s
“Speaking Rights” in the Irish parliament and expand the voting
rights for the Irish President to the
citizens of the six counties of the
North of Ireland.
Whereas, Ireland and its people
are an ancient and distinct nation;
and
Whereas, Ireland is an island
nation that has throughout her history been comprised of 32 counties,
artificially divided into a 26 county
(the Irish Republic) and a 6 county
(Northern Ireland) unit in the 1920’s;
and
Whereas, this artificial, forced
division of the Irish Nation was
designed to be a transitory answer
to the 1920’s issues; and
Whereas, history has demonstrated that the Irish people have the
right and responsibility to govern
themselves; and
Whereas, human and civic rights
derive “their just powers from the
consent of the governed” and are
best guaranteed by the people’s
freely instituted, duly elected and
independent government; and
Whereas, the Irish Republic has
the fastest growing economy in the
European Economic Union and a
unified, independent Irish economy
is the most effective way to sustain
such dynamic growth and the most
fair and impartial path to extend
the benefits of such growth to all
Ireland; and
Whereas, a unified, independent
Irish Police Service and Justice System is most likely to be effective,
fair and impartial; and
Whereas, a unified, independent
Irish society is most likely to provide for the social and practical
needs of its people; and
Whereas, the historic Good Friday
Agreement, negotiated with American support, and ratified by the
English and Irish governments, as
well as a vote of the entire island
of Ireland, includes provisions for
achieving a United Ireland through
purely
democratic
and
peaceful
means and provides for the development of North/South Institutions
and cross-border cooperation; and

24
Whereas, this City and the United
States have greatly benefited from
the contributions of the sons and
daughters of Ireland and Cleveland
City Council wishes to promote the
peace and prosperity for all Ireland;
and
Whereas, the democratic reunification of Ireland is the ultimate
roadmap to peace and prosperity for
the Irish nation and people; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby calls upon the English and Irish
governments
to
take
immediate
steps necessary to bring to fullness
the promises of the All Ireland institutions called for and envisioned by
the Good Friday Agreement.
Section 2. That this Council further requests the Irish government
to formally study the implications of
a United Ireland and outline steps
fundamental to restore the Irish
Nation and publicly report their
finding and plans.
Section 3. That this Council further respectfully suggests that the
Irish government move without delay to further the peaceful healing
of the Irish nation by granting duly
elected northern MP’s “Speaking
Rights” in the Irish parliament and
expand the voting rights for the
Irish President to the citizens of
the six counties of the North of Ireland.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution to
the Ambassador for the Republic of
Ireland and the Ambassador for the
United Kingdom in Washington,
D.C.
Section 5. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

Res. No. 2017-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 620 Frankfort Avenue, and
repealing Resolution No. 1489-06,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to 620 Frankfort, LLC, 620 Frankfort Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
No. 8202241, by Resolution No. 148906 adopted by the Council on September 11, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and

The City Record
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to 620 Frankfort, LLC, 620 Frankfort Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 8202241 be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1489-06, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

Res. No. 2018-06.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a D1, D2, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit at 18310 Euclid
Avenue and repealing Resolution
No. 1695-06, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of liquor license of a
D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit
to JC & RW Enterprises, Inc., DBA
Euclid Green Lanes, 18310 Euclid
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permanent Number 4261287 by Resolution No. 1695-06 adopted by the Council on October 9, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of liquor license and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to JC
& RW Enterprises, Inc., DBA Euclid
Green Lanes, 18310 Euclid Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permanent
Number 4261287 be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1695-06, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

2242

December 6, 2006
Res. No. 2019-06.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
12333 Superior Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at 12333, Inc., DBA
Superior Food Mart, 12333 Superior
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, Permanent Number 6555110; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 12333, Inc., DBA
Superior Food Mart, 12333 Superior
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, Permanent Number 6555110; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and

December 6, 2006
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

Res. No. 2020-06.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objections to the renewal
of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at
12916 Forest Avenue, and repealing
Resolution Nos. 1335-05 and 1224-06,
objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to T &
J Beverage Company, DBA T & J
Beverage Store, 12916 Forest Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44120 by Resolution No. 1335-05 adopted by the
Council on July 13, 2005 and Resolution No. 1224-06 adopted by the
Council on August 9, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objections to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objections to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to T & J
Beverage Company, DBA T & J Beverage Store, 12916 Forest Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 87731650005 be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Resolution
Nos. 1335-05 and 1224-06, containing
such objections, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

Res. No. 2021-06.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 2045 East 21st Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2,
D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Kabat & Cull, Inc., DBA Peabody’s
Concert Club & Patio, 2045 East 21st
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number 4425551 to Downunder
Entertainment,
LLC,
DBA
Peabody’s Entertainment, 2045 East
21st Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44115,
Permanent Number 2293436; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to

The City Record
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Kabat & Cull, Inc., DBA Peabody’s
Concert Club & Patio, 2045 East 21st
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number 4425551 to Downunder
Entertainment,
LLC,
DBA
Peabody’s Entertainment, 2045 East
21st Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44115,
Permanent
Number
2293436;
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

2243

25
Ord. No. 880-06.
By
Council
Members
Conwell,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 605.031 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 695-05,
passed July 13, 2005, relating to
aggressive solicitation.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 605.031 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 695-05, passed July 13,
2005, is amended to read as follows:
Section 605.031 Aggressive Solicitation
(a) For purpose of this section:
(1) “Aggressive manner” means as
follows:
A. Approaching, seeking, or following a person before, during, or
after solicitation if that conduct is
intended, or likely to cause, a reasonable person to (i) fear bodily
harm to oneself or another, (ii) fear
damage to or loss of property, or
(iii) be intimidated;
B.
Intentionally
or
recklessly
touching or causing physical contact
with another person without that
person’s consent in the course of
soliciting if the touching or physical conduct is likely to cause a reasonable person to feel restrained or
intimidated;
C. Continuing to solicit from a person after the person has given a
negative response;
D.
Intentionally
or
recklessly
blocking the safe or free passage of
a person or vehicle by any means,
including unreasonably causing a
pedestrian or vehicle operator to
take evasive action to avoid physical contact. Acts authorized by a
lawfully issued permit shall not constitute obstruction of pedestrian
traffic for purposes of this section;
or
E.
Intentionally
or
recklessly
using obscene, abusive, or threatening language, or gestures, toward a
person being solicited.
(2)
“Automated-teller
machine”
means a device, linked to a financial institution’s account records,
that is able to carry out transactions, including, but not limited to
account transfers, deposits, cash
withdrawals, balance inquiries, and
mortgage and loan payments.
(3)
“Automated-teller
machine
facility” means the area comprised
of one or more automated-teller
machines, and any adjacent space
that is made available to banking
customers.
(4) “Public property” means all
property owned, operated or controlled by any governmental agency,
including but not limited to streets,
public sidewalks, tree lawns, parks,
playgrounds, publicly-owned parking lots, schools, libraries, post
offices, municipal transit facilities
and other public lands and buildings.

26
(5) “Solicit” or “soliciting” means
to request an immediate donation of
money or other thing of value from
another person, regardless of the
solicitor’s purpose or intended use of
the money or other thing of value.
The solicitation may be, without
limitation, by the spoken, written, or
printed word, by gesture or by other
means of communication.
(b) No person shall solicit:
(1) In an aggressive manner;
(2) Within twenty feet of any
automated-teller
machine
without
the consent of the owner or other
person legally in possession of the
machine, provided, however, that
when an automated-teller machine is
located within an automated-teller
machine facility, the distance shall
be measured from the entrance or
exit of the automated-teller machine
facility;
(3) Within twenty feet of a bus
stop, rapid-transit shelter, or bus
shelter;
(4) Within twenty feet of a line
of pedestrians waiting to obtain
access to a building or event;
(5) Within twenty feet of the area
of the sidewalk used by an outdoor
restaurant under a temporary public
right-of-way
occupancy
permit
issued under Chapter 513 of the Codified Ordinances or by a vendor
under a permit issued under Chapter 508, Section 675.06, or Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances;
(6) Within twenty feet of a valet
zone
established
under
Section
451.33 of the Codified Ordinances;
(7) Within fifteen feet of any pay
telephone, provided, however, that
when a pay telephone is located
within a telephone booth or other
facility, the distance shall be measured from the entrance or exit of
the telephone booth or facility;
(8) Within fifteen feet of the
entrance or exit of any public toilet
facility;
(9) On public property within ten
feet of an entrance to a building;
(10) On public property within ten
feet of an entrance to a parking lot;
(11) On a public street, by intentionally or recklessly blocking the
safe or free passage of a person or
vehicle.
(c)
Whoever
violates
division
(b)(1) of this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree for a first offense, a misdemeanor of the third degree for a second offense, and a misdemeanor of
the first degree for a third and subsequent offense. Whoever violates
any provision in division (b)(2)
through (b)(10) of this section shall
be guilty of a minor misdemeanor
for a first offense, and a misdemeanor of the fourth degree for a
second and subsequent offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on
which an offense occurs or continues.
(d) The Director of Public Safety
shall report to this Council by
December 31 of each year on the
enforcement activity under this section that occurred in the twelvemonth period prior to the report, or
such longer period as may be necessary to cover all enforcement
activity since the last report. The
first report shall be made in 2007.
Each report shall include, without

The City Record
limitation, the hours of time expended by the Division of Police in
enforcement, the total number of
cases, and the gender, race, and age
of each offender.
Section 2. That existing Section
605.031 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 695-05, passed July 13,
2005, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

Ord. No. 1282-06.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Kelley, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An ordinance to amend Sections
350.01, 350.03, 350.06, 350.07, and
350.10, of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended or
enacted by various ordinances relating to wall murals; to amend Section 341.021, as amended, relating to
the airport land protective district;
to enact new Sections 350.161 and
350.162 of the codified ordinances
relating to wall murals; and to
authorize the City to enter into a
lease with Clear Channel Outdoor to
erect a billboard on land at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport.
Whereas, it is the public policy of
the City of Cleveland to protect and
enhance the function and appearance of the Central Business District
as a lively civic center and vibrant
hub of business, consumer trade and
commercial activity; and to protect
and enhance the aesthetic character
of the Central Business District to
residents and visitors in a manner
consistent with its role; and
Whereas, it is also the public policy of the City of Cleveland to stabilize and improve property values
within the Central Business District,
to utilize the Central Business District to facilitate strengthening the
economy of the City, and to stimulate business, consumer trade and
commercial activity; and
Whereas, it is also the public policy of the City of Cleveland to
enhance the visual attractiveness of
the
Central
Business
District
through the display of graphic
works of art and vibrant visual
images; and
Whereas, some of buildings and
structures within the Central Business District have large, unsightly
exterior walls that detract from the
appearance of the district as a lively civic center and vibrant hub for
business, consumer trade and commercial activity; and
Whereas, covering an unsightly
exterioir wall with graphic art displayed via high resolution or other
state of the art media will improve
the visual qualities of the wall; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

2244

December 6, 2006
Section 1. That the following Sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Sections 350.01 and 350.03, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 3076-A-89,
passed December 10, 1990
Section 350.06, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1428-98, passed
Section 350.07, as enacted by Ordinance No. 3076-A-89, passed December 10, 1990, and
Section 350.10, as amended by
Ordinance No. 452-01, passed June 19,
2001
are amended to read as follows:
Section 350.01 Intent
Sign regulations, including provisions to control the type, design,
size, location and maintenance of
signs, are hereby established to
achieve the following purposes:
(a) To enable the public to locate
goods, services and facilities without difficulty or confusion;
(b) To protect property values,
public investment and overall neighborhood character by preventing
conditions which have undesirable
impacts on surrounding properties;
(c) To promote the development
of attractive and harmonious residential districts, viable commercial
districts and approximately identified industrial uses;
(d) To provide a safe environment
through the regulation of private
signs and lighting which may distract attention from or obstruct the
visibility
of
traffic
information
devices; and
(e) To protect scenic views and
the visual environment along city
streets and limited access highways.
(f) To improve the aesthetic appearance of exterior walls of buildings in a manner consistent with a
district’s role as a lively civic center and a vibrant hub for business
and consumer trade and commercial
activity
and
without
materially
changing significant and distinct
architectural or historical features
of such buildings.
Section 350.03 Definitions
As used in this Chapter, the terms
listed below shall be interpreted
according to the following definitions:
(a) Sign. Any device, structure,
fixture, painting or visual image
designed to be seen from an outdoor
location and using graphics, symbols, letters or numbers for the purpose of conveying a message or
advertising or identifying any establishment, product, goods or service.
(A searchlight is not classified as a
sign).
(b)
Sign
Panel.
A
structural
object or portion of a structural
object designed to form a distinct
background area or frame for the
display of a sign’s information —
including all non-opaque surface
area of an internally illuminated
canopy or wall panel displaying signage.
(c) Unit of a Building. A space
occupying a portion of the ground
floor of a building, containing an
entrance from the building exterior,
and
separated
from
other
such
spaces by a party wall or walls.
(d) Freeway. A limited-access or
controlled-access
public
highway
characterized by entrance and exit

December 6, 2006
ramps and an absence of traffic signals and stop signs along the main
roadway.
(e) Signs by Use Type. For the
purpose of identifying permitted
signs, all signs are classified by use
type and defined as follows:
(1) Billboard. A sign directing
attention to a specific business,
product, service, entertainment activity or other commercial activity
sold, offered or conducted elsewhere
than upon the lot on which the sign
is located.
(2) Bulletin Board. A sign for the
display of announcements of a public or semi-public institution and
located on the grounds of that institution.
(3) Business Sign. An “identification sign” (as defined below) which
also may display such detailed information about the operation of a
business as brand names of goods
or services offered on the premises,
prices or special “sale” information,
forms of payment accepted, hours of
operation,
telephone
number
or
other similar information.
(4) Development Sign. A temporary sign announcing a development
to be located on the subject property and identifying firms or individuals participating in the development process.
(5) Directional Sign. A sign indicating a direction or a location to
which pedestrian or vehicular traffic is requested to move.
(6) Identification Sign. A sign
identifying or naming a building,
business, institution, residential development or other use and displaying such other information as the
owner, manager and address of the
use or building.
(7) Information Sign. A sign which
presents miscellaneous information
or instructions intended to serve the
public rather than to promote a business, product or issue and not containing information included in the
definition of any other sign.
(8) Nameplate. A sign indicating
the name, address and/or profession
of a person or persons occupying a
residence.
(9) Political Sign. A temporary
sign advocating action on a public
issue, indicating a candidate for
public office, or expressing an opinion or belief.
(10) Real Estate Sign. A temporary sign promoting the rental, sale
or lease of property.
(11) Temporary Sign. A sign
announcing special events or sales,
the sale or rental of property, political positions or other matters and
intended for use for a limited period of time.
(12) Wall Mural. A sign that displays high resolution static or electronic
graphic
or
photographic
images, including decorative art and
art used in commerce, placed on an
unsightly wall of a building, or
unsightly roof surface generally
parallel to the building wall surface.
A wall mural may display words in
accordance with Section 350.161 and
otherwise shall comply with Section
350.161. A wall mural may depict or
direct attention to a specific business, product, service, entertainment
activity, or other activity. Wall
murals shall not be deemed billboards or wall signs for purposes of

The City Record
Chapters 350 and 341 of this Zoning
Code and Chapters 161, 303, 3113,
and 317 of the Codified Ordinances.
(f) Signs by Structural Type. For
the purpose of identifying permitted
signs, all signs and particular related objects are classified by structural type and defined as follows:
(1) Banner. A temporary sign of
lightweight fabric or similar material that is mounted to a pole or a
building (excluding flags and pennants as defined herein).
(2) Changeable Copy Sign (Automatic). A sign or portion thereof on
which the copy changes automatically or animation is displayed
through
electrical
or
electronic
means (e.g., time and temperature
units and message centers).
(3) Changeable Copy Sign (Manual). A sign or portion thereof on
which copy is changed manually
through placement of letters or symbols on a sign panel.
(4) Canopy Sign. A sign attached
to or printed on the fascia or
valence of a canopy, awning or marquee or hanging from the soffit
(underside) of such structure.
(5) Flag. An object, typically of
lightweight fabric material, used as
a symbol of a government, political
entity or nationality group.
(6) Flashing Sign. A sign illuminated by intermittent light in a
manner designed to attract attention.
(7) Free-standing Sign. A sign
which is not attached to a building
and which is either attached directly to the ground, placed directly on
the ground, displayed on a natural
or man-made object (other than a
building), or elevated on a pole or
other supporting structure attached
to the ground.
(8) Pennant. An object or sign of
lightweight fabric or similar material, suspended from a rope, wire or
string, usually in series, and designed to move in the wind, also
including streamers, pinwheels, balloons and similar small objects.
(9) Portable (Mobile) Sign. A temporary sign which is designed to be
moved
and
is
not
permanently
attached to any part of a building
or to the ground.
(10) Projecting Sign. A sign erected on the outside wall of a building
and projecting out at an angle
therefrom.
(11) Roof Sign. A sign erected
upon and completely over the roof
of any building.
(12) Wall Sign. A sign attached to
or displayed or painted on an exterior wall in a manner parallel with
the wall surface and not projecting
more than sixteen (16) inches from
such surface. (A sign mounted on a
roof surface which is generally parallel to the wall surface shall also
be considered a “wall sign.”)
(13) Window Sign. A sign painted
on, attached to, or suspended directly behind or in front of a window
or the glass portion of a door.
Section 350.06 Prohibited Signs
The following types of signs are
prohibited in all zoning districts:
(a) Strips of pennants, propellers,
pinwheels, streamers, balloons and
similar small objects except as temporary displays specifically authorized for carnivals and open-air fes-

2245

27
tivals under Section 329.07 and for
new businesses under division (c) of
Section 350.20.
(b) Signs imitating or resembling
official traffic or government signs
and signals.
(c) Signs attached to trees, rocks
or natural formations or public property including but not limited to
utility poles, benches, trash containers and parking meters, except as
specifically authorized by the City.
(d) Moving, revolving or flashing
signs except as provided in Section
350.10(l)(5), Section 350.16, and Section 350.161 governing wall murals.
(e) Signs attached to any condemned structure, as defined in Section 363.29 or any structure condemned or declared a nuisance structure pursuant to Section 3103.09.
Section 350.07 Illumination of Signs
Signs may be illuminated only in
accordance with the following regulations:
(a) Controls. Sign illumination
shall be designed and placed so as
not to cause glare which may result
in traffic hazards or which may
interfere with the customary use of
nearby residences.
(b) Prohibitions. Flashing or intermittent illumination shall not be
permitted except as provided in
Section 350.10(l)(5), Section 350.16,
and Section 350.161 governing wall
murals using electronic media.
(c) Districts. In Residential Districts, only nameplaces and bulletin
boards may be illuminated. All signs
in non-residential districts may be
illuminated.
(d) Electronic Message Centers.
Signs
displaying
electronicallychanging or animated messages (as
defined in division (f)(2) of Section
350.03) are permitted as specified in
the “schedules” referenced in division (b) of Section 350.14 and division (b) of Section 350.15 and as permitted in Section 350.161 governing
wall murals.
Section 350.10 Billboards
Billboards, as defined in division
(e)(1) of Section 350.03, shall be permitted only in accordance with the
following
regulations
and
other
applicable regulations of this Chapter:
(a) Zoning Districts. Billboards
shall be permitted only in General
Industry and Unrestricted Industry
Districts,
except
that
billboards
directed at any angle toward a freeway may be permitted in SemiIndustry Districts. Billboards shall
not
be
permitted
in
Cleveland
Landmark Districts, Public Land
Protective Districts, Business Revitalization Districts or on the opposite side of any street bordering
such districts. No billboards shall be
permitted on the east side of State
Route 176 (the Jennings Freeway)
and only one billboard shall be permitted on the west side of State
Route 176 (the Jennings Freeway).
(b) Sign Types. Billboards shall
be permitted as either free-standing
or wall signs, unless otherwise
restricted in these codified ordinances. In General Industry and
Unrestricted Industry districts, billboards shall also be permitted as
roof signs not exceeding permitted
building height and meeting the

28
standards of division (h) of Section
350.08.
(c) Size. Billboard sign panels
shall not exceed eight hundred and
twenty (820) square feet in area and
shall be further limited in size by
the setback regulations in divisions
(g) and (h) of this section. For purposes of determining required setbacks, the measurement of sign
panel area shall exclude “extensions” projecting beyond the otherwise rectangular or standard geometric panel dimensions, provided
that these extensions do not exceed
21% of such standard panel area.
(d) Height. The maximum height
of a billboard above the roadway
surface to which it is oriented shall
be fifty (50) feet. However, in no
case shall the height of the billboard as measured from the grade
of the lot on which it is placed
exceed
the
maximum
permitted
height for main buildings.
(e) Spacing. Along freeways, the
minimum
distance
between
billboards located on one side of the
road shall be fourteen hundred
(1400) feet. Along freeways, the
minimum
distance
between
billboards located on opposite sides of
the road and visible to approaching
traffic shall have a minimum spacing of five hundred (500) feet.
Along other roads, such distance
shall be seven hundred fifty (750)
feet between two billboards which
are each less than one hundred
(100) square feet in area and shall
be one thousand (1000) feet in all
other instances. Except for doublesided (“back-to-back”) billboard panels, not more than one (1) billboard
panel may be located on a single
structure.
(f) Distance from Street Lines.
Billboards shall be located behind
the required building setback lines
of the lots on which they are located. In addition, billboards shall be
located a minimum distance of twenty-five (25) feet measured in any
direction from the point of intersection of the right-of-way lines of two
intersecting streets.
(g) Distance from Zoning District
Lines.
Billboards
located
along
streets other than freeways shall be
set back at least two hundred (200)
feet from Residential, Local Retail
and General Retail District lines.
For such billboard panels exceeding
three hundred eighty (380) square
feet in area, all minimum setbacks
from zoning district lines shall be
increased one (1) foot for each one
(1) additional square foot of sign
panel area. Billboards along freeways shall be set back at least fifty
(50) feet from Residential, Local
Retail, and General Retail District
lines.
(h) Distance from Bridges not on
Freeways and from Parkways. A
billboard directed at any angle
toward a bridge, not on a freeway
or toward a bridge not on a freeway
or toward a parkway shall be set
back from the outer pavement edge
a minimum of one (1) foot for each
one (1) square foot of sign panel
area. However, the minimum such
setback shall be three hundred thirty (330) feet. Furthermore, as required by State regulations, no billboard may be located within five
hundred (500) feet of the inter-

The City Record
change of a freeway, as measured
along the right edge of the maintraveled roadway in the direction of
travel from the beginning or ending
of pavement widening at the exit or
entrance to the freeway.
(i) Distance from Freeways. A
billboard directed at any angle
toward a freeway shall be located
outside of the freeway right of way,
but in no case closer than fifty (50)
feet from the freeway pavement
edge.
(j) Illumination. Billboards shall
be illuminated only by means of continuous reflected light. Internallyilluminated or back-lit billboards
shall not be permitted. Billboards
shall not include automatic changeable copy signs (i.e., electronic message centers) as defined in division
(f)(2) of Section 350.03.
(k) Referral to City Planning
Department. Any Building Permit
application for installation of a new
billboard shall be referred to the
Director of the City Planning Department for a determination of
compliance with the location, spacing and setback regulations of this
section. In making this determination, the Director and staff of the
Department shall utilize a map
maintained
by
the
Department
showing locations of existing billboards, zoning districts and other
information necessary to make such
determination.
(l) Nonconforming Billboards. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 350.19, a legal nonconforming
billboard may be replaced or may be
reconstructed to an extent greater
than otherwise permitted if the City
Planning
Commission
deermines
that such replacement or reconstruction will satisfy the following
conditions:
(1) Site and Design Improvements. The site of the new or reconstructed billboard shall be landscaped
and
otherwise
improved,
through use of an ornamental base
or frame, a streamlined support
structure, or similar features effective in improving the appearance of
the site. At a minimum, evergreen
shrubs, at least three (3) feet in
height at the time of planting and
four (4) feet in height after two (2)
growing seasons, shall be planted at
maximum intervals of four (4) feet
along any side of the base of the
billboard oriented toward a public
street. Such planting shall extend at
least the full width of the billboard
panel. In addition, all portions of the
parcel(s) of land on which the billboard site is located shall be planted with grass or other suitable vegetative ground cover between the
billboard and all public streets abutting the parcel(s).
(2) Degree of Nonconformity. The
new or reconstructed billboard shall
be no greater in size, height, number of panels, or any panel dimension than is the existing billboard,
nor shall the new or reconstructed
billboard be less conforming to any
zoning regulation than is the existing billboard, except that a panel or
sign face may be added to the back
of a billboard where previously
there had been no panel or sign
face.
(3) Location. The new or reconstructed billboard shall be placed in

2246

December 6, 2006
precisely the same location as the
existing billboard unless the City
Planning
Commission
determines
that a different location on the same
parcel of land would be more effective in meeting the intent of the
sign regulations, as stated in Section 350.01.
(4) Sign Type. With respect to the
“sign types” defined in division (f)
of Section 350.03, the new or reconstructed billboard shall be the same
type as the existing billboard unless
the City Planning Commission determines that a different sign type
would be more compatible with the
subject property or nearby properties.
(5) Changeable Copy. The new or
reconstructed billboard may incorporate automatic changeable copy
only if such copy is limited to a single billboard panel or two back-toback billboard panels and only if
each such panel replaces two or
more billboard panels on a single
parcel of property or two or more
billboard panels on adjacent properties.
The
replacement
billboard
panel shall not be larger than any
of the billboard panels it is replacing. In the case of a sign utilizing
changeable
copy,
each
message
shall remain fixed for at least eight
(8) seconds.
Section 2. That the following
existing Sections of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Sections 350.01 and 350.03, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 3076-A-89,
passed December 10, 1990
Section 350.06, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1428-98, passed
Section 350.07, as enacted by Ordinance No. 3076-A-89, passed December 10, 1990, and
Section 350.10, as amended by
Ordinance No. 452-01, passed June 19,
2001
are repealed.
Section 3. That Section 341.021 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 452-01, passed June 19,
2001 is amended to read as follows:
Section 341.021
Lakefront Public
Land Protective Districts
In accordance with the policy of
enhancing the development of the
City as set forth in the Zoning Code,
Council deems it essential to the
general health, safety, and welfare
that the public investments in the
lakefront airport, public utilities,
and public parks be protected; that
a high quality of design and development of properties surrounding
these public investments be maintained; and that development incompatible with the safe and efficient
operations of the City’s lakefront
airport be prohibited.
Therefore, in furtherance of the
basic principle set forth in Section
341.01 of these codified ordinances
that reasonable controls over the
character and design of buildings
and structures adjoining these public properties and facilities are
essential for the promotion of the
public health, safety, property, comfort and the general social and economic welfare of the City, the Cleveland Lakefront Public Land Protective District is created as described
below.

December 6, 2006
The Cleveland Lakefront Public
Land Protective District
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of Lake Avenue,
N.W, and the center line of West
Boulevard, N.W.; thence northeasterly along said center line of West
Boulevard, N.W. to the center line of
Cliff Drive, N.W; thence northwesterly along said center line of Cliff
Drive, N.W. and along its northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the southeasterly line
of Permanent Parcel No. 001-04-009;
thence
northeasterly
along
said
southeasterly line of said Permanent Parcel No. 001-04-009 and along
its northeasterly prolongation to its
intersection with the shoreline of
Lake Erie; thence southeasterly,
northerly, southeasterly, northwesterly and northeasterly along said
shoreline of Lake Erie to its intersection with the westerly line of the
Breakwall; thence northerly along
said westerly line of the Breakwall
to its intersection with the northwesterly line of said Breakwall;
thence
northeasterly
along
said
northwesterly line of said Breakwall and continuing northeasterly
following the most northwesterly
line of said Breakwall and or shoreline of Lake Erie to its intersection
with the northerly prolongation of
the City Line separating the City of
Cleveland and the Village of Bratenahl; thence southerly along said
northerly prolongation and along
said City Line separating the City
of Cleveland and the Village of
Bratenahl and along its southerly
extension to its intersection with
the southeasterly line of the New
York
Central
(Lake
Shore
and
Michigan Southern Railway) Railroad; thence southwesterly along
said southeasterly line of said New
York
Central
(Lake
Shore
and
Michigan Southern Railway) Railroad to its intersection with the
northwesterly extension of the center line of East 33 Street; thence
southeasterly along said northwesterly extension and along said center line of East 33 Street to the center line of the Innerbelt Freeway
ramp at King Avenue, N.E.; thence
southwesterly along said center line
of said Innerbelt Freeway ramp at
King Avenue, N.E. to the center line
of said Innerbelt Freeway; thence
southeasterly along said center line
of said Innerbelt Freeway to its
intersection with the southeasterly
line of the Pennsylvania Railroad:
thence southwesterly along said
southeasterly line of said Pennsylvania Railroad to said southeasterly line of New York Central Railroad; thence continuing southwesterly along said southeasterly line of
said New York Central Railroad to
its intersection with the center line
of Lake Avenue, N.W.; thence northwesterly along said center line of
Lake Avenue, N.W. to the place of
beginning and as outlined in red on
the map attached to the enacting
ordinance be and the same is now
defined as the Lakefront Public
Land Protective District.
Section 4. That existing Section
341.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 452-01, passed June
19, 2001 is repealed.

The City Record
Section 5. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Sections 350.161 and 350.162 to read as
follows:
Section 350.161 Wall Murals
(a) Districts Where Permitted.
Wall murals shall be permitted
within the Central Business District
and the portion of the Flats-Oxbow
Business Revitalization District that
is north of the Detroit-Superior
Bridge and east of the Cuyahoga
River. Within those districts, wall
murals may be permitted in any
community development plan area,
public land protective district, landmark district, business revitalization district, urban renewal district,
and any overlay district subject to
the
provisions
of
this
section.
Notwithstanding the provisions of
Chapters 161, 303, 317, and 341 of the
Codified Ordinances, this section
shall constitute design and all other
guidelines and requirements for all
wall murals located within all community development plan areas, public land protective districts, landmark districts, business revitalization districts, urban renewal districts, and every overlay district
within the Central Business District
as well as any other area and district in which wall murals may be
authorized.
(b) Definitions.
(1)
As
used
in
this
section
“agency or official of the City”
means
Mayor,
director,
commissioner, commission, board, bureau,
department, advisory committee, or
any other body or official exercising
the powers vested by § 67 of the
Charter or to whom such powers
have been delegated.
(2) As used in this section, “architectural” means a style of building
recognized in the art and science of
architecture as characterized by
peculiarities of structure, ornamentation, or motif.
(3) As used in this section, “the
display”
means
the
displayed
images and words together with the
art
or
pictorial
background
on
which the images and words appear,
excluding any nameplate that identifies the permit holder or its
assignee.
(4) As used in this section, “historic” means recognized as distinctly important in the social science of
history that records, studies, and
explains the character and significance of past human activities,
including the use made of buildings.
(c) Design Requirements.
(1) Primarily Pictorial. The sign
shall display non-verbal graphic or
non-verbal photographic images, and
may display words. The aggregate
area of all words on a static display
exclusive of the sign nameplate and
trademarks, service marks or other
distinct product or company logos
shall comprise no more than twenty
percent (20%) of the area of the display.
(2) Type of Medium. The medium
for the display shall be electronic as
a static or moving image or a combination of each, or as a static
image upon a single sheet of vinyl
or other material that presents a
high-resolution image (“other highresolution material”). A display is

2247

29
“electronic” if its images, while
being displayed on the wall mural,
are generated by computer or otherwise by the controlled conduction
of electrons or other charge carriers.
(3) Vinyl or other High-Resolution
Medium. If the medium is vinyl or
other high-resolution material, it
shall comply with all of the following:
(i) The resolution of the display
shall be a minimum of 300 dots-perinch (“DPI”);
(ii) If vinyl, the grade of vinyl
shall be a minimum twelve-ounce
flex vinyl, twelve-ounce mesh vinyl,
or twelve-ounce sailcloth vinyl;
(iii) The display may be changed
or replaced up to six times within
any 12-month period in addition to
any change necessary to repair or
restore the sign if the structure or
medium is defaced, damaged or
destroyed;
(iv) The sign panel or other structure to which the vinyl or other
high-resolution material is attached
shall not appear from line-of-sight in
front of the display as a distinct
frame surrounding the exterior of
the display;
(d) Size of Display. The total area
of the display shall be no less than
80% of the total area of the wall on
which the sign is located except
where:
(1) A smaller sign is required to
avoid covering a distinctive architectural or historic feature of the
building; or
(2) A smaller sign is required to
avoid interference by structures,
other
buildings,
trees,
or
other
obstacles with line-of-sight visibility
of the display by the vehicular traffic to which the sign is oriented; or
(3) A smaller sign is required to
ensure safety in erecting, changing,
or maintaining the display or sign
structure; or
(4) A smaller sign is required
because the structure of the building or wall will not support or otherwise accommodate the sign structure necessary for the display to
cover 80% of the wall area.
(e) Maximum Number of Wall
Murals. Exclusive of legal nonconforming wall murals or wall signs,
no more than six wall murals authorized by this section may be displayed simultaneously within the
Central Business District or the portion of the Flats-Oxbow Business
Revitalization District that is north
of the Detroit-Superior Bridge and
east of the Cuyahoga River.
(f) Standards for Wall Placement
and Removal.
(1) The wall mural shall be displayed on an exterior wall in a manner parallel with the wall surface;
(2) The wall mural shall not project more than 16 inches from the
wall surface if the medium is vinyl
or other high-resolution material,
and not more than 28 inches if the
medium is electronic;
(3) The wall mural shall be set
back from each vertical and horizontal end of the wall a minimum
distance of six inches;
(4) Illumination. Except for displays that are electronic, the displays of wall murals shall be illuminated
by
continuous
reflected
light directed from an external light
source onto the display.

30
(5) Repair and Removal. Each
wall mural shall be secured in a
manner that will require minimal
repair after removal. The person in
control of a wall mural or the owner
of the wall shall repair all damage
caused to the wall by securing or
removing the wall mural. Upon
removal, if required by the City
Planning Commission or the Landmarks Commission, the entire wall
face shall be painted by the owners
or person in possession of the wall
with a high quality exterior paint
guaranteed by the manufacturer to
last at least 10 years before weather causes the paint to deteriorate.
The paint shall be a solid color that
is consistent with the color of the
building.
(6) A wall mural shall not cover,
destroy, or materially alter an architectural feature distinct from a generally flat, unornamented wall surface unless the City Planning Commission or Landmarks Commission
permits the wall mural to cover the
architectural feature;
(7) A wall mural shall not cover,
destroy, or materially alter a distinctive historic feature of the building unless the City Planning Commission or Landmarks Commission
permits the wall mural to cover the
historic feature.
(8) Finishes, textures, construction
techniques,
designs,
colors,
craftsmanship, and building materials that characterize a distinctive
historic or architectural feature of a
building shall be preserved. To prevent material alteration:
(i) Wall murals adjacent to a distinctive historic or architectural feature of a building shall be secured
in a manner that, if removed in the
future, would not impair the form
and integrity of the feature
(ii) Chemical or physical treatments, such as sandblasting, that
may cause damage to any distinctive historic or architectural feature
shall not be used.
(iii) All surface cleaning of the
portion of a wall mural or underlying wall adjacent to a distinctive
historic
or
architectural
feature
shall use a means that will not disturb the feature’s color, texture, or
other visual qualities, accelerate
deterioration or otherwise impair
the structure of the feature.
(g) Permit for Erection of Wall
Murals.
(1) No wall mural may be erected
or replaced unless and until the person in control of the display applies
for and obtains the following:
(i) A permit under Section 3113.03
of the Building Code and Section
350.04 of the Zoning Code; and
(ii) If the proposed location falls
within a landmark district, or is
located on a landmark, approval by
the Landmarks Commission applying the provisions of this section; or
(iii) If the proposed location falls
within any other district or plan
area, but not a landmark district,
approval by the Planning Commission applying the provisions of this
Section, or by the City Planning
Director pursuant to the rules of the
Planning
Commission
for
administrative approval, applying the
provisions of this section.
(2) All approvals required for the
erection or replacement of wall

The City Record
murals shall be documented by notation on the permit application during its evaluation, or by issuance of
a separate legal instrument reciting
the approval. No permit shall be
issued if the approvals required by
this section have not been obtained.
(3) A permit issued in accordance
with this section shall be construed
to be a license to proceed during the
life of the permit with the erection
or replacement of the wall mural as
described in the approved permit
application so long as fewer than
six wall murals are on display
simultaneously within the Central
Business District or the portion of
the Flats-Oxbow Business Revitalization District that is north of the
Detroit-Superior Bridge and east of
the Cuyahoga River and shall be
construed as signifying all approvals required by this section. All
permits and applications for permits
authorized by this section shall be
in the name of the person in control
of the display. Such permits shall
convey to such person all rights and
privileges prescribed by this section,
which may be assigned, and impose
upon such person all duties prescribed by this section, which may
be delegated. The person in control
of
the
display,
including
all
assignees and delegees, shall place
a nameplate on the wall mural when
erected or replaced that identifies
that person, and shall notify the
City Planning Director of the identity and current postal address of
that person.
Nothing in this section shall be
construed as authorizing the erection or placement of a wall mural
without the consent of the owner or
person in possession of the wall
where the wall mural would be
located.
(4) Expiration. A permit to erect
or replace a wall mural shall expire
if the wall mural is not erected and
bearing a display within one year
after the date of the issuance of the
permit.
(5) Holders of permits authorizing
the erection or replacement of wall
murals shall have priority over all
other holders based on the date and
time of issuance of each permit,
with the earlier date and time having priority.
(6) A wall mural shall be removed
if it has no display for a continuous
period of six months. It shall not be
re-erected
or
replaced
without
obtaining a new permit pursuant to
this section.
(7) The City shall keep a permanent record of all permits issued for
wall murals including dates and
times of issuance, which shall be
available for public inspection and
copying.
(8) Change or Replacement of Display. A change or replacement of a
display shall not require a permit or
any other approval by the City.
However, a change of material or
method of attachment to the building or wall surface shall be deemed
a replacement of the wall mural,
requiring a new permit, unless such
change is authorized by Section
350.19 of this Zoning Code.
(h) Standards for Determining
Whether To Issue Permit for Wall
Murals. An application for a permit
to erect or replace a wall mural

2248

December 6, 2006
shall be granted if the wall mural
as proposed satisfies the criteria of
this section. Such criteria are in lieu
of the standards and guidelines prescribed and authorized elsewhere in
the Codified Ordinances for a permit, certificate of appropriateness,
or other approval by any agency or
official of the City except those set
forth in the Building Code addressing structures and materials for
signs.
For those geographic areas where
the City Planning Commission has
jurisdiction as set out in the Codified Ordinances, a permit shall not
be issued unless the City Planning
Commission determines that all of
the following are satisfied. For
those areas where the Landmarks
Commission has jurisdiction as set
out in the Codified Ordinances, a
permit shall not be issued unless the
City
Planning
Commission
determines that all of the following
are satisfied:
(1)
Walls
Eligible
for
Wall
Murals. The proposed location of a
wall mural shall be on an exterior
building
wall
that
qualifies
as
unsightly at the time that the application for a permit is pending. A
wall shall be deemed unsightly if its
facade is a generally flat surface,
lacking distinctive external architectural ornamentation, is constructed of poor quality or inappropriate
construction materials, or is in disrepair.
(2) No Interference with Distinctive Architectural and Historic Features. Placement of a wall mural at
the proposed location shall not be
clearly incongruous with — or obscure or compromise the design
integrity of — distinctive architectural or historic features of the
building and of the architectural or
scenic
character
of
surrounding
properties within 250 lineal feet
from the wall. A personal preference
of any agency or official that wall
murals as a class are incongruous
with the Central Business District or
the portion of the Flats-Oxbow Business Revitalization District that is
north of the Detroit-Superior Bridge
and east of the Cuyahoga River as
a whole shall not be considered.
(3)
Findings
of
Clear
Incongruity/Material Alteration of Distinctive Architectural, Historic Features. If the agency or official of the
City responsible for evaluating an
application for a permit decides to
deny the application because the
proposed wall mural would be clearly incongruous with, or would materially alter, a distinctive historic or
architectural feature, that agency or
official shall state the grounds for
such finding in writing delivered to
the applicant. On the applicant’s
appeal of such finding and denial,
the agency hearing the appeal shall
find for the applicant unless the
agency
or
official
demonstrates
clear incongruity or material alteration. As to that finding, such an
appeal shall be heard de novo.
(4) No Pending Notices of Violation. No permit to erect or replace a
wall mural shall be issued if, while
the permit application is pending, a
notice issued pursuant to Section
3101.10 of the Building Code is unresolved as to the building on which
the proposed wall mural would be

December 6, 2006
placed. A permit may be issued upon
resolution of the alleged violation
that is the subject of the notice.
(5) Content of Display Not Subject
To Approval. No agency or official
of the City shall prescribe or otherwise require approval of the color,
graphic design, words, message, or
any other element of the content of
any display, nor shall any agency or
official of the City require advance
submission of the content of a display before granting a permit or
other approval required or authorized by the Codified Ordinances.
(6) Administrative Authority To
Establish Other Criteria. No agency
or official of the City is authorized
to establish criteria, standards, or
guidelines that add restrictions, conditions, or requirements to those set
forth in this section. However, each
reviewing agency or official shall
be allowed to follow its procedural
rules and regulations, unless those
rules and regulations conflict with
this section. In that case, this section shall govern.
(7) The wall mural’s size and
placement is appropriate to achieve
the objective of beautifying the
unsightly wall.
(i) Application for Permit.
(1) Each application shall address
one wall mural proposed for one
wall.
(2) Completed and satisfactory
applications for permits to erect or
replace wall murals filed first in
accordance with this section shall
be given priority over all other completed and satisfactory applications.
The Building Commissioner shall
record on the application the time
and date upon which each application is filed, and maintain all filed
applications or copies for at least 10
years from the date of filing.
(3) The applicant for a permit prescribed by this section shall file
such application with the Building
Commissioner, who shall forward
the application to the appropriate
agency or official responsible for
evaluating it within seven days of
receiving it.
(4) The application shall be accompanied by a color photographic
or digital image of the proposed
wall location in the context of
adjoining properties, and the same
color image shall also depict the
proposed wall mural to represent
with general accuracy the appearance of the wall with the addition
of the mural. The agency or official
of the City responsible for evaluating the application may require
additional photographic or digital
images to be submitted with the
application relevant to the criteria
prescribed by this section.
(5) The application shall also be
accompanied by:
(i) The materials and information
required by Section 350.04(C) of this
Zoning Code and 3113.03(g) of the
Building Code;
(ii) The street address of the
building upon which the proposed
wall mural would be located;
(iii) A list of streets and other
vehicular rights of way to which the
proposed mural principally would be
oriented;
(iv) A calculation of the area of
the wall upon which the wall
mural would be located and a cal-

The City Record
culation of the area of the expected display;
(v) If the area of the expected display would be less than 80% of the
wall area, the reasons for the smaller display;
(vi) A description of the medium
to be used for the display, and if
vinyl or other high-resolution material, a description of its grade and
a calibration of the dots-per-inch of
the resolution of the display;
(vii) A list of buildings within the
Central Business District and the
portion of the Flats-Oxbow Business
Revitalization District that is north
of the Detroit-Superior Bridge and
east of the Cuyahoga River where
existing wall murals are on display
at the time of filing the application;
(viii) The telephone number and
postal address of the applicant and
the name, telephone number, and
postal address of the owner of the
building to which the wall mural
would be secured and a statement
as to whether the owner or person
in possession of the wall has consented to erection of the proposed
wall mural.
(j) Time for Granting or Denying
Application for Permit.
(1) Within 60 days after receiving
an application for a permit or up to
an additional 60 days if requested
by the applicant or needed by the
agency or official responsible for
evaluating
the
application,
the
agency or official of the City responsible for evaluating the application
shall grant or deny the application
and shall notify the applicant, the
Building
Commissioner,
and
the
Planning Director in writing of the
decision.
(2)
An
application
shall
be
deemed denied only by written notification to the applicant identifying
each ordinal provision that was not
satisfied and the reason that it was
not satisfied.
(3)
The
application
shall
be
deemed granted if not denied in
accordance with this section.
(k) Enforcement. Whenever the
Building Commissioner finds that a
wall mural does not conform to the
requirements of this section, exclusive of subsections 350.161(h)(1)
and 350.161(h)(2), or that the structure of the wall mural or its attachment to the building is in a hazardous condition, he shall forward
by certified mail to the person in
control of the display a written
notice
of
violation,
stating
the
defects and requiring that person to
correct or abate the defects within
30 days. The Commissioner shall
otherwise follow the procedures set
forth in Chapter 3103.
Section 350.162 When Valid Permit, Approval Is Presumed
Where for 12 consecutive years
beginning at any time prior to January 1, 2006 a sign with a face of
at least 300 square feet has remained at the same location continuously with no change in height,
setback, number of panels, size, or
dimensions,
other
than
changes
allowed by division (l) of Section
350.10, it shall be conclusively presumed for purposes of Section 350.18
of this Zoning Code and Section
3113.04 of the Building Code that the
sign was erected initially pursuant

2249

31
to valid permits, certificates, and all
other approvals required by the City
at the time of erection.
Section 6. That Clear Channel Outdoor, Inc., formerly known as Eller
Media Company (“Clear Channel”),
and the City dispute a claim for
approximately $688,276 asserted by
Clear Channel as the prevailing
party denominated as Eller Media
Company in the lawsuit of Eller
Media Company v. City of Cleveland,
Case No. 1:99 CV 276, United States
District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, and Case No. 01-3946,
United States Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit, for reimbursement
of all attorneys’ fees, costs, and disbursements incurred by the plaintiff
in pursuing in the United States District Court and in defending the
appeal by the City in the United
States Court of Appeals (collectively,
“the
advertising
ordinance
case”). The City, acting through its
Director of Law, and Clear Channel
have
entered
into
a
settlement
agreement
to
compromise
Clear
Channel’s claim. In accordance with
paragraphs 9 and 10 of the settlement agreement between the City
and Clear Channel Outdoor, Inc.:
Beginning on the date that this
legislation becomes effective and
for 12 months afterward, the City
must give priority to the first six
applications for permits, certificates,
or other approvals Clear Channel
files for the erection of wall murals,
regardless of whether there are
other applications pending by other
applicants. During that 12-month
period, the City will not grant any
application by Clear Channel or any
other applicant within 120 days
after Clear Channel or any other
applicant has filed an application
with the City. To “give priority”
means to treat each of the first six
applications filed by Clear Channel
as though it had been filed before
all other applications filed by all
other applicants, and to grant or
deny each of the first six applications filed by Clear Channel before
granting
or
denying
any
other
application, regardless of the actual
date of each application, and regardless of whether the 120-day waiting
period described in this paragraph
has expired.
If the City denies a Clear Channel application within the 12 month
period, the City must extend the initial 12-month period by another 12
months. During the 12-month extension, the City must give priority to
as many additional applications by
Clear Channel as were denied during the first 12-month period. Also
during this extension, the City will
not grant an application by Clear
Channel or any other applicant within 120 days after the application is
filed with the City. Clear Channel’s
priority status ends automatically
once the City has issued six permits
to Clear Channel for wall murals.
If Clear Channel obtains all permits, certificates and other approvals required by law to erect six
wall murals in the Central Business
District, Clear Channel will devote
one wall mural exclusively to display of noncommercial public art
for, at least, eight consecutive years
in consultation with and with the
approval of the City of Cleveland.

32
Clear Channel will use its best
efforts to secure state-of-the art
media for use on the wall murals
within the Central Business District
to cover walls that otherwise are
flat,
windowless,
unornamented
sides of buildings.
No application for a permit to
erect a wall mural may be accepted
by the Building Commissioner for
filing until after the provisions of
this Ordinance become effective.
Section 7. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into a
Lease By Way of Concession with
Clear Channel Outdoor, Inc. to erect
a billboard. The Director of Law
shall prepare the Lease By Way of
Concession and shall contain any
additional provisions as the director
determines to be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 8. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 27, 2006.
Effective January 6, 2007.

Ord. No. 1439-06.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
Business Aircraft Center for office
space at Cleveland Burke Lakefront
Airport, for the Department of Port
Control, for the period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a Lease Agreement (“Lease”)
with
Business
Aircraft
Center
(“Lessee”) for use and occupancy of
approximately 720 square feet of
office space including one holding
room and one side office located in
Room 149 of the terminal building
at Cleveland Burke Lakefront Airport
(“Leased
Premises”).
The
Leased Premises shall be used as an
aircraft charter service facility and
to provide related services to serve
the air traveling public and patrons
at Burke Lakefront Airport. The
term of the Lease shall be for a two
year period commencing on the
effective date thereof. For use of the
Leased Premises, Lessee shall pay
the City an annual rate as determined by an appraisal, but in no
event shall the annual rate be less
than
Nine
Thousand
Dollars
($9,000.00) which is equal to $12.50
per square foot. Such rent shall be
paid in monthly installments of
$750.00 due on the first day of each
month during the term of the Lease.
Section 2. The Lease authorized
by this ordinance shall be prepared
by the Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all

The City Record
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

Ord. No. 1721-06.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 2 and 3 of
Ordinance No. 991-04, passed June 7,
2004, relating to a Concession Agreement
with
Airport
Marketing
Income, LLC for special events promotion, marketing and advertising.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 2 and 3 of Ordinance No. 99104, passed June 7, 2004, are amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a concession Agreement
with Airport Marketing Income, LLC
for special events’ promotion, marketing, and advertising for the
Department of Port Control, for a
period of two years.
Section 2. That the agreement
shall provide that the City will
receive
between
sixty
percent
(60%) to eighty percent (80%) of
the gross marketing and promotional revenues and Airport Marketing Income will be paid twenty
percent (20%) to forty percent
(40%) of the gross marketing and
promotional revenues when no third
party agency is involved. The City
will receive between fifty-one percent (51%) and sixty-eight percent
(68%) of gross marketing and promotional revenues; Airport Marketing Income will receive between
seventeen percent (17%) and thirty-four percent (34%) of gross marketing and promotional revenues;
and fifteen percent (15%) of gross
marketing and promotional revenues will be paid to a third party
advertising firm as an agency commission when a third party agency
is involved. The specific split of
gross marketing and promotional
revenues shall be established for an
individual project based on agreement between the Director of Port
Control
and
Airport
Marketing
Income.
Section 3. That the term of the
Agreement shall be for two years,
commencing on the Agreement’s
effective date. The Agreement shall
be cancelable on the director’s thirty-day written notice. The director
will report at the end of each calendar year to the Clerk of Council
and the Chair of the Aviation and
Transportation Committee regarding
initiatives
conducted
under
the
Agreement.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 2 and 3 of Ordinance
No. 991-04, passed June 7, 2004, are
repealed.

2250

December 6, 2006
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

Ord. No. 1722-06.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
Unites States Department of Justice,
COPS Office, for the COPS Interoperable Communications Technology
Program; authorizing the purchase
by one or more requirement contracts of materials, equipment, supplies, and services needed to implement the grant; and authorizing the
Director to employ one or more professional consultants to implement
the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public
Safety
is
authorized
to
apply for and accept a grant in the
amount
of
$6,000,000,
from
the
United States Department of Justice, COPS Office, to conduct the
COPS
Interoperable
Communications Technology Program; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds
under the grant; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
described in the application packet
for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the application
packet for the grant, File No. 172206-A, made a part of this ordinance
as if fully rewritten, including the
obligation of the City of Cleveland
to provide cash matching funds in
the sum of $2,000,000 from Fund No.
11 SF 006, as presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
if the extension does not involve an
increase in the dollar amount of the
grant specified above.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements during the grant period of the necessary items of materials, equipment,
supplies, and services needed to
implement the grant as described in
the file, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and

December 6, 2006
Supplies on a unit basis for the
Department of Public Safety. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that
permits an award to be made for
all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any
combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term.
Section 6. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public
Safety
is
authorized
to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to implement the grant as described in the
file.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public
Safety from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Safety for the purpose
of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Safety, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 8. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Safety may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 9. That the cost of contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from the fund or funds
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance
and the cash match.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1754-06.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 4 of Ordinance No. 8-05,
passed January 31, 2005, relating to
professional services for marketing
and advertising services, materials
and equipment necessary to promote
the Cleveland Hopkins International
and Burke Lakefront Airports.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 4 of Ordinance No. 8-05, passed January 31,
2005, is amended to read as follows:
Section 4. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60
SF 105, 60 SF 106 and any PFCs or
bonds issued for this purpose and
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation
accounts
and
the
Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 129204)
Section 2. That existing Section 4
of Ordinance No. 8-05, passed January 31, 2005, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

Ord. No. 1863-06.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health for the 2007 Cardiovascular
Health Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $69,895, and
any other funds as they become
available during the grant term,
from the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health, to conduct the 2007 Cardiovascular Health Program, for the
purposes
in
the
summary
and
according thereto; that the Director
of Public Health is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the

2251

33
funds are appropriated for the purposes set forth in summary and budget application for the grant.
Section 2. That the summary and
budget application for the grant,
File No. 1863-06-A, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
as presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public
hearing
on
this
legislation,
is
approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

Ord. No. 1864-06.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health for the 2007 Immunization
Action Plan Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to
apply for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $135,209,
and
any
other
funds
as
they
become available during the grant
term, from the Cuyahoga County
Board of Health, to conduct the
2007
Immunization
Action
Plan
Program, for the purposes in the
summary and budget and according
thereto; that the Director of Public
Health is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds
under the grant; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
in the summary and budget for the
grant.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1864-06-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the author-

34
ity to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

Ord. No. 1865-06.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District for the 2007 Solid Waste Disposal Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $92,314.00,
and any other funds that may
become available during the grant
term from Cuyahoga County Solid
Waste District to conduct the 2007
Solid Waste Disposal Program; that
the Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the Summary for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the Summary for
the grant, File No. 1865-06-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1866-06.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health for the 2007 Tobacco Control
Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $45,000, and
any other funds as they become
available during the grant term,
from the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health, to conduct the 2007 Tobacco
Control Program, for the purposes in
the summary and according thereto;
that the Director of Public Health is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and the funds are appropriated for
the purposes in the summary for the
grant.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1866-06-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

Ord. No. 1867-06.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the 2007 Federal AIDS Prevention
Program; and to enter into contract
with various agencies to implement
the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

2252

December 6, 2006
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to
apply for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $817,656,
and
any
other
funds
as
they
become available during the grant
term, from the Ohio Department of
Health, to conduct the 2007 Federal AIDS Prevention Program, for
the purposes in the summary and
according thereto; that the Director
of Public Health is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and the
funds are appropriated for the purposes in the summary for the
grant.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1867-06-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts for the
implementation of the program as
described in the summary contained
in the file, payable from the fund or
funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance with the following agencies, in the following amounts:
Agency

Amount

AIDS Taskforce of
Greater Cleveland
$157,170.00
Antioch Baptist Church –
AGAPE Program
62,400.00
Cleveland Treatment
Center
132,000.00
Free Clinic of Greater
Cleveland
45,600.00
HUMADAOP
45,300.00
Northeast Ohio Neighborhood
Health Services
18,020.00
Planned Parenthood
35,510.00
Recovery Resources
54,000.00
Salvation Army
40,000.00
Regional Advisory Group
Support
10,000.00
In addition, the sum of not more
than $103,160.00 is appropriated to
the Department of Public Health
for administrative costs of implementing this program and the sum
of not more than $114,496.00 is
appropriated for the operation of
the Disease Intervention Specialist
Services Program conducted by the
Department.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

December 6, 2006
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

Ord. No. 1868-06.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
Research Triangle Institute, Inc. for
the Research Triangle Program;
authorizing the director to enter
into one or more requirement contracts of materials, equipment, supplies, and services needed to implement the grant; and authorizing the
director to enter into one or more
contracts with various agencies,
entities, or individuals to implement
the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $26,970.49,
and any other funds that may
become available during the grant
term from Research Triangle Institute, Inc. to conduct the Research
Triangle Program; that the Director
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
summary for the grant contained in
the file described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1868-06-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements during the grant term of the necessary
items of materials, equipment, supplies, and services needed to implement the grant as described in the
file, in the approximate amount as
purchased
during
the
preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Department
of Public Health. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate

The City Record
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 6. That the costs of the
contract or contracts shall be paid
from the fund or fund which are
credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance and shall be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 7. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Health may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 8. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with
agencies, entities, or individuals to
implement the grant as described in
the file.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

Ord. No. 1869-06.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the 2007 Ohio Department of Health
for the STD Control Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to
apply for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $127,923,
and any other funds as they become
available during the grant term,
from
the
Ohio
Department
of
Health, to conduct the 2007 STD
Control Program, for the purposes
in the summary and budget and
according thereto; that the Director
of Public Health is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the

2253

35
funds are appropriated for the purposes in the summary and budget
for the grant.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1869-06-A, made
a part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

Ord. No. 1870-06.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title of Ordinance No. 941-06,
passed June 12, 2006; to supplement
the ordinance by adding new Sections 8, 9, and 10; and to renumber
existing Sections 8, 9, 10, and 11 to
new Sections 11, 12, 13, and 14, relating to a grant from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency for the
operation of the Division of Air
Quality.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title of Ordinance No. 941-06, passed June 12,
2006, is amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
accept a grant from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency for
financial assistance for the operation of the Division of Air Quality;
authorizing the director to enter
into one or more purchase contracts
for various services, equipment and
supplies; authorizing the director to
enter into one or more contracts
with various agencies or entities
necessary to operate the Division of
Air Quality; determining the method
of making the public improvement
of constructing, rehabilitating, renovating,
replacing,
or
otherwise
improving air monitoring sites and
other similar structures on cityowned
and
city-leased
property;
authorizing the director to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts to construct the improvement; and authorizing the director

36
to employ one or more professional
consultants necessary to design the
improvement.
Section 2. That the existing title
of Ordinance No. 941-06, passed June
12, 2006, is repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 94106, passed June 12, 2006 is supplemented by adding new Sections 8, 9,
and 10, to read as follows:
Section 8. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
constructing, rehabilitating, renovating, replacing, or otherwise improving air monitoring sites and other
similar structures on city-owned and
city-leased property (the “Improvement”), for the Division of Air Quality, Department of Public health, by
one or more contracts duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the Improvement.
Section 9. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making of the Improvement with the lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the Improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
the Improvement may be treated as
a separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a gross price.
On request of the Director the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule of unit prices, including profit
and overhead, for all items constituting units of the Improvement.
Section 10. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to employ by contract or contracts one or
more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services
necessary to design the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public
Health from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Health for the purpose
of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Health, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 4. That existing Sections
8, 9, 10,and 11 of Ordinance No. 94106, passed June 12, 2006, are renumbered to new “Section 11”, “Section
12”, “Section 13”, and “Section 14”.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1953-06
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more contracts with Alltel Communications for professional
services necessary to provide data
services and maintenance on mobile
computer interfaces for a period of
one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Alltel
Communications
for
professional
services necessary to provide data
services and maintenance on mobile
computer interfaces for a period of
one year, in the total sum of
$479,904, for City departments. The
contract or contracts shall be paid
from Fund No. 70-151102-631000, Request No. 142096.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

Ord. No. 2022-06.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Friends of Mt. Pleasant to
stretch banners and lights on CPP
utility poles along Luke Easter
Park; Kinsman Road, between East
93rd & East 154th; and at Kingsbury, from December 21, 2006 to January 20, 2007.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the Friends of Mt.
Pleasant to install, maintain and
remove banners and lights on CPP
utility poles along Luke Easter
Park; Kinsman Road, between East
93rd & East 154th; and at Kingsbury, inclusive from December 21,
2006 to January 20, 2007. Said banner shall be approved by the Director of Public Service, in consultation
with the Director of Public Safety,
as to type, method of affixing and
location so as not to interfere with
any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or
ordinance. The permission of the
owner of any pole from which a ban-

2254

December 6, 2006
ner will be hung must be obtained
prior to issuance of the permit. No
commercial
advertising
shall
be
printed or permitted on said banner
and said banner shall be removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 27, 2006.
Effective December 1, 2006.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Thursday, November 30, 2006
1:30 p.m.
Public Utilities Committee: Present:
Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice Chair; Cleveland, Polensek, Cummins, Dolan,
Authorized
Westbrook,
Santiago.
Absence: Kelley.
Monday, December 4, 2006
9:30 a.m.
Joint — Health and Human Services Committee and Public Safety
Committee: Present in Health: Britt,
Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair; Kelley,
Santiago, Conwell, Westbrook, Reed.
Present in Safety: Conwell, Chair;
Brady, Vice Chair; Britt, Coats, Kelley,
Cummins,
Turner,
Santiago.
Authorized Absence: Polensek.
11:00 a.m.
Aviation and Transportation Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice
Chair;
Brancatelli,
Dolan, Cleveland, Britt, Turner.
1:30 p.m.
Joint — Community and Economic
Development Committee and Finance
Committee: Present in CDED: Pierce
Scott, Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair;
Cimperman, Cummins, Coats, Westbrook, Brady, Zone, Lewis.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair;
Cimperman,
Vice
Chair;
Brady, Conwell, Britt, Zone, Westbrook, Coats, Pierce Scott, Brancatelli, White.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair;
Brady, Conwell, Zone, Westbrook,
Coats, White, Pierce Scott, Brancatelli. Authorized Absence: Britt.
Tuesday, December 5, 2006
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Vice Chair; Cummins, Brady,
Westbrook,
Lewis,
Cimperman.
Authorized Absence: Pierce Scott,
Chair; Coats, Zone.

The City Record

December 6, 2006

37

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Ace Taxi Services, Inc. — outbound taxicab concession — Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport (O 1761-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2233-T
Center St., 2019 — redevelopment agreement — The K & D Group (O 2053-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2230
Norfolk Southern Railway Company — license agreement — sewer line — Milepost CD-192.23 —
Port Control (O 1848-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2235
Promotions, and public service announcements — exchange of, or acceptance of, services —
local, state, and federal agencies and non-profit organizations — Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport and special events
(O 1849-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2235
Taxi cabs — limit the number — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 1761-A-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2233

Banners
Friends of Mt. Pleasant — banners and lights — Luke Easter Park (O 2022-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2254

Billboards
Wall murals — amend Sects. 350.01, 350.03, 350.06, 350.07, & 350.10 — new Sects. 350.161
& 350.162 — airport land protective district — amend Sec. 341.021 — Clear Channel
Outdoor — lease — billboard — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 1282-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2244

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Addison Road, 1147, (Ward 7) — Furman Brown, Jr. c/o Pamela Murray, owner — appeal
resolved on 11/29/06 (Doc. A-124-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2239
Detroit Avenue, 11609, (Ward 18) — Zum Properties, owner — appeal rescheduled to 12/13/06
on 11/29/06 (Doc. A-119-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2239
East 55th Street, 1400, (Ward 13) — Goodrich Gannett, owner — appeal resolved on 11/29/06
(Doc. A-121-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2239
Euclid Avenue, 402, (Corner Alley), (Ward 13) — MRN Partnership, owner — appeal adopted
on 11/29/06 (Doc. A-115-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2239
Fulton Parkway, 4261, (Ward 15) — Cuyahoga County of Ohio, owner appeal resolved on
11/29/06 (Doc. A-116-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2239
Madison Avenue, 11200, (Ward 18) — Famous Supply Co., owner — appeal postponed to
be rescheduled when the Board hears from the Fire Prevention Bureau 11/29/06
(Doc. A-60-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2239
West 11th Street, 2366, (Ward 13) — Robert Holcepl, owner — appeal resolved on 11/29/06
(Doc. A-97-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2239
West 6th Street, 1223, (Ward 13) — Legal Aid Society of Cleveland, owner — appeal
withdrawn on 11/29/06 (Doc. A-99-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2239
Wetzel Avenue, 5801, (Ward 16) — Mini Maxi Corp., owner — appeal adopted on 11/29/06
(Doc. A-112-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2239

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Terminal Restroom renovations, Phase II design — contract per Ord. 359-05 to Richard L.
Bowen + Associates, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 550-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2237

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Terminal Restroom renovations, Phase II design — contract per Ord. 359-05 to Richard L.
Bowen + Associates, Inc. — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(BOC Res. 550-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2237

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Terminal Restroom renovations, Phase II design — contract per Ord. 359-05 to Richard L.
Bowen + Associates, Inc. — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 550-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2237

2255

The City Record

38

December 6, 2006

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
East 128th Street sewer replacement project — contract per Ord. 876-06 to Terrace
Construction Co. — Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 549-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2237
Westdale Avenue sewer replacement project — contract per Ord. 872-06 to Terrace
Construction Co. — Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 548-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2237

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Ductile iron pipe and fittings — consent to assignment — Contract #65941, 63867
per BOC Res. 284-06, 719-04 — Division of Water (BOC Res. 546-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236
East 128th Street sewer replacement project — contract per Ord. 876-06 to Terrace
Construction Co. — Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 549-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2237
Water meter parts, valves, fire hydrants and parts and service fittings — consent
to assignment — Contract #66115, 65347, 64799, 63871 per BOC Res. 398-06, 9-06,
458-05, 717-04 — Division of Water (BOC Res. 547-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236
Westdale Avenue sewer replacement project — contract per Ord. 872-06 to Terrace
Construction Co. — Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 548-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2237

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Ductile iron pipe and fittings — consent to assignment — Contract #65941, 63867
per BOC Res. 284-06, 719-04 — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 546-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236
Water meter parts, valves, fire hydrants and parts and service fittings — consent
to assignment — Contract #66115, 65347, 64799, 63871 per BOC Res. 398-06, 9-06,
458-05, 717-04 — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 547-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236

Board of Control — Water Division
Ductile iron pipe and fittings — consent to assignment — Contract #65941, 63867
per BOC Res. 284-06, 719-04 — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 546-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236
Water meter parts, valves, fire hydrants and parts and service fittings — consent
to assignment — Contract #66115, 65347, 64799, 63871 per BOC Res. 398-06, 9-06,
458-05, 717-04 — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 547-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
East 128th Street sewer replacement project — contract per Ord. 876-06 to Terrace
Construction Co. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 549-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2237
Westdale Avenue sewer replacement project — contract per Ord. 872-06 to Terrace
Construction Co. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 548-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2237

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Broadview Road, 4835, (Ward 16) — Villa Care Realty, owner and Scott Soeder, d.b.a.
Home Team Properties, prospective purchaser — appeal heard on 12/4/06
(Cal. 06-230) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2238
Carnegie Avenue, 6104, (Ward 5) — 3320 Woodland Avenue Ltd., owner and Deborah Thompson,
agent — appeal heard on 12/4/2006 (Cal. 06-165) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2238
East 140th Street, 485, (Ward 10) — John Masseria and Wade Park Properties, Ltd, owner —
appeal denied and adopted on 12/4/06 (Cal. 06-159). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2238
East 45th Street, 1427, (Ward 13) — Urban Housing Ltd., CLV Lofts, LLC and Doug
Perkowski, owners — appeal heard on 12/4/06 (Cal. 06-234) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2238
East 93rd Street, 3470, (Ward 5) — St. Catherine Avenue Family Dollar Ltd., owner and Jay
Romer — appeal postponed to 2/5/07 on 12/4/06 (Cal. 06-235) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2238
Forest Avenue, 11805, (Ward 4) — Audrey Render, owner — appeal heard on 12/4/2006
(Cal. 06-211) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2238
Fulton Avenue, 3141, (Ward 14) — Owen Rex, owner — appeal heard on 12/4/06
(Cal. 06-232) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2238
Paris Avenue, 3420, (Ward 14) — Manuela Rex, owner — appeal heard on 12/4/06
(Cal. 06-231) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2238

2256

December 6, 2006

The City Record

39

South Hill Drive, 4514, (Ward 15) — Paul Moreland, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
12/4/06 (Cal. 06-228) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2238
West 25th Street, 1844, (Ward 13) — TEG Enterprises, Inc., owner and John Stuchal,
prospective tenant — appeal heard on 12/4/06 (Cal. 06-233) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2238
West 6th Street, 2165, (Ward 13) — Jeffrey Kennedy, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 12/4/06 (Cal. 06-229) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2238
West 71st Street, 3827, (Ward 12) — Vendetta Brown, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
12/4/06 (Cal. 06-226) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2238
West 7th Street, 2094, (Ward 13) — Michael McBride, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 12/4/06 (Cal. 06-102) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2238
West 7th Street, 2098, (Ward 13) — Michael McBride, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 12/4/06 (Cal. 06-103) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2238
West 7th Street, 2100, (Ward 13) — Brian McCreary, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
12/4/06 (Cal. 06-104) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2238
West 7th Street, 2106, (Ward 13) — Brian McCreary, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
12/4/06 (Cal. 06-105) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2238

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
East 37th Street, 2670, (Ward 5) — Hans Klemola, owner — appeal to be heard on 12/18/06
(Cal. 06-238) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2238
East 55th Street, 2925, (Ward 12) — Joseph Immormino, d.b.a., JBI Scrap Processor, Inc. —
appeal to be heard on 12/18/06 (Cal. 06-249) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2238
East 55th Street, 3018, (Ward 5) — Ian Abrams, d.b.a. The Scrap Yard LLC — appeal to be
heard on 12/18/06 (Cal. 06-241) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2238
Quincy Avenue, 7007, (Ward 5) — Gary Gross, d.b.a. Advance Iron and Metal — appeal to be
heard on 12/18/06 (Cal. 06-243) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2238
St. Clair Avenue, 17149, (Ward 11) — Brian Kuhar, d.b.a. All City Recycling, Inc. —
appeal to be heard on 12/18/06 (Cal. 06-242) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2238

Bonds
Water revenue bonds — issuance and sale — pay improvements costs — waterworks system
(O 2045-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2222

Bridges
Pearl Road Bridge No. 118 & CSX Railroad — rehabilitation — giving consent — County
Commissioners — allocation of County Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds
(O 2049-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2228

Burke Lakefront Airport
Business Aircraft Center — Lease Agreement — office space (O 1439-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2250
Circadian Knight Corp. d/b/a Top Gun — Lease Agreement — office space
(O 1847-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2235
International Women’s Air and Space Museum, Inc. — lease (O 1852-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2235
Marketing and advertising services, materials and equipment — professional services —
Cleveland Hopkins International and Burke Lakefront Airports —
amend Ord. 8-05 (O 1754-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2251
Promotions, and public service announcements — exchange of, or acceptance of, services —
agreements — local, state, and federal agencies and non-profit organizations —
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport and special
events (O 1849-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2235

Central Business District
Wall murals — amend Sects. 350.01, 350.03, 350.06, 350.07, & 350.10 — new Sects. 350.161
& 350.162 — airport land protective district — amend Sec. 341.021 — Clear Channel
Outdoor — lease — billboard — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(O 1282-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2244

City Council
Iron Mountain National Underground Storage — contract (O 2059-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2234

2257

The City Record

40

December 6, 2006

City of Cleveland Bids
Consolidated Maintenance Facility, Phase 2-A-1H210 — Department of Port Control —
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — per Ord. 1635-06 — bid
due December 27, 2006 (advertised 11/29/2006 and 12/6/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
Elevators, escalators and moving walkways maintenance and repair —
Department of Port Control — per Ord. 1633-06 — bid due
December 15, 2006 (advertised 11/29/2006 and 12/6/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
Fire aerial ladder — Department of Public Service — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance — per Ord. 762-05 — bid due December 29, 2006
(advertised 12/6/2006 and 12/13/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2241
Generator maintenance and repair — Department of Public Service — Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 501-06 — bid due December 22, 2006
(advertised 12/6/2006 and 12/13/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2241
Memphis School demolition and site improvements — Department of Building
and Housing — per Ord. 757-06 — bid due December 20, 2006
(advertised 11/29/2006 and 12/6/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
Moving services — Department of Finance — per Ord. 1622-06 — bid due
December 22, 2006 (advertised 12/6/2006 and 12/13/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2241
SANS (Storage Area Network) (re-bid) — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water — per Ord. 1019-05 — bid due December 29, 2006
(advertised 12/6/2006 and 12/13/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2241
Service fittings — Department of Public Utilities — Division of
Water — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 — bid due December 29, 2006
(advertised 12/6/2006 and 12/13/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2241
South HVAC upgrade — Department of Port Control — Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport — per Ord. 359-05 — bid due January 5, 2007
(advertised 12/6/2006 and 12/13/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2241
Transformers, 13.8kV — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Cleveland
Public Power — per C.O. Sec. 129.26 — bid due December 20, 2006
(advertised 11/29/2006 and 12/6/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
Water coils, chilled — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties — Division of
Convention Center and Stadium — per Ord. 1061-06 — bid due December 21, 2006
(advertised 11/29/2006 and 12/6/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
Window guards installation — Department of Public Safety — Division
of Police — per Ord. 1887-05 — bid due December 22, 2006
(advertised 12/6/2006 and 12/13/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2241

City Planning Commission
Deise Ave., Maxwell Ave., Aspinwall Ave., E. 140th St. (parcels bounded by) —
Change the Use Districts — Residence Industry (O 1549-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2239
E. 150th St. (east) — north of St. Clair Ave. — change the Use and Area Districts —
Multi-Family Residential District and a ‘C’ Area District
(O 1897-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
Euclid Ave. (north), east of Avalon Rd. — change the Use, Area and Height District —
Multi-Family Residential District, a ‘D’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District
(O 1973-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
Jennings Rd. — north of Beltline St., south of I-71 — change zoning of land —
Unrestricted Industry District, an ‘A’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District
(O 1898-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
Shawnee Ave. property (south side near intersection of Neff Rd. & E. 185th St.) —
change the zoning — Family Residential District (O 1765-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
St. Catherine Ave. (south) — change the Use, Area and Height District — General
Retail Business District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District
(O 1896-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
University Circle Design District (UCDD) — establish (O 1895-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
W. 65th St. & Storer Ave. (northwest corner) — change the Use District —
Shopping Center District (O 1885-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240

Clerk of Council
Iron Mountain National Underground Storage — contract
(O 2059-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2234

2258

December 6, 2006

The City Record

41

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Ace Taxi Services, Inc. — agreements — outbound taxicab concession
(O 1761-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2233-T
Marketing and advertising services, materials and equipment — professional services —
Cleveland Hopkins International and Burke Lakefront Airports —
amend Ord. 8-05 (O 1754-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2251
Promotions, and public service announcements — exchange of, or acceptance of, services —
agreements — local, state, and federal agencies and non-profit organizations —
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport and special
events (O 1849-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2235
Taxi cabs — limit the number (O 1761-A-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2233
Wall murals — amend Sects. 350.01, 350.03, 350.06, 350.07, & 350.10 — new Sects. 350.161
& 350.162 — airport land protective district — amend Sec. 341.021 — Clear Channel
Outdoor — lease — billboard (O 1282-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2244

Cleveland Municipal Court
Community service — place criminal defendants — Cleveland Work
Crew Program — contracts with Court Community Service
(O 1952-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236

Codified Ordinances
Aggressive solicitation — amend Section 605.031 (O 880-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2243
Mentoring program, City of Cleveland — new Sec. 171.03
(O 1239-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236
Terms of payment — amend Sec. 185.41 (O 1074-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236
Wall murals — amend Sects. 350.01, 350.03, 350.06, 350.07, & 350.10 — new Sects. 350.161
& 350.162 — airport land protective district — amend Sec. 341.021 — Clear Channel
Outdoor — lease — billboard — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(O 1282-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2244

Community Development
Center St., 2019 — redevelopment agreement — The K & D Group
(O 2053-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2230
E. 70th St., Zoeter & Lawnview Aves. — Land Reutilization Program — New Mount Zion Baptist
Church (O 1461-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2235
E. 84th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Lillian Roberts
(O 1733-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2235
Gaylord Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Union Miles Development Corporation
(O 2055-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2232
Greater Cleveland Habitat for Humanity — Land Reutilization Program — scattered sites
(Ward 8) (O 2054-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2230
Homeless assistance activities — contracts — non-profit agencies — Cuyahoga
County — Cleveland/Cuyahoga County Office of Homeless Services
(O 1884-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236

Concession Agreements
Airport Marketing Income, LLC — amend Ord. No. 991-04
(O 1721-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2250
Taxi cabs — limit the number — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(O 1761-A-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2233

Condolences
Carter, Laveria (R 2065-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221
Hendrix, Dolphus “Dino” (R 2064-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221

Congratulations
Failor, Gary (R 2067-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221
Saul, Jack (R 2066-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221

2259

The City Record

42

December 6, 2006

Contracts
Alltel Communications — data services and maintenance — mobile computer interfaces
(O 1953-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2254
Cognos Corporation — Cognos’ Financial Information System — Public Utilities
(O 2050-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2229
Community service — place criminal defendants — Cleveland Work Crew Program — Court
Community Service (O 1952-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236
Homeless assistance activities — non-profit agencies — Cuyahoga County — Cleveland/Cuyahoga
County Office of Homeless Services (O 1884-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236
Iron Mountain National Underground Storage — Clerk of Council (O 2059-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2234
LifePak 12 defibrillators & LifePak 500 automatic external defibrillators — maintenance —
Medtronic Physio-Control (O 1877-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236
Marketing and advertising services, materials and equipment — professional services —
Cleveland Hopkins International and Burke Lakefront Airports —
amend Ord. 8-05 (O 1754-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2251

County Commissioners
Pearl Road Bridge No. 118 & CSX Railroad — rehabilitation — giving consent — County
Commissioners — allocation of County Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds
(O 2049-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2228

Cuyahoga County
Cardiovascular Health Program 2007 — grant — Cuyahoga County Board of Health
(O 1863-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2251
Homeless assistance activities — contracts — non-profit agencies — Cuyahoga County —
Cleveland/Cuyahoga County Office of Homeless Services (O 1884-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236
Immunization Action Plan Program 2007 — grant — Cuyahoga County Board of Health
(O 1864-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2251
Pearl Road Bridge No. 118 & CSX Railroad — rehabilitation — giving consent — County
Commissioners — allocation of County Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds
(O 2049-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2228
Solid Waste Disposal Program 2007 — grant — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste
District (O 1865-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2252
Tobacco Control Program 2007 — grant — Cuyahoga County Board of Health
(O 1866-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2252

Economic Development Department
Citywide VOIP communication system — extend — relocate — Downtown One Stop Center —
1020 Bolivar (O 2051-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2230
Greater Cleveland Sports Commission, The — grant agreement — marketing the City of
Cleveland (O 1892-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236
PROES — Building HOPE Program — grant — LNE & Associates, LLC (O 2052-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2230

Emergency Medical Service Division
LifePak 12 defibrillators & LifePak 500 automatic external defibrillators — maintenance —
Medtronic Physio-Control — contracts (O 1877-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236

Finance Department
Alltel Communications — contracts — data services and maintenance — mobile computer
interfaces (O 1953-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2254
Community service — place criminal defendants — Cleveland Work Crew Program — contracts
with Court Community Service (O 1952-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236
Dry cell batteries — purchase — various divisions (O 2044-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2222
Exterminating services — purchase — various divisions (O 2047-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2228
Keys, locks, and hardware — purchase — various divisions (O 2046-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2227
Overhead doors — maintain and repair — various divisions (O 2048-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2228
Water revenue bonds — issuance and sale — pay improvements costs — waterworks system
(O 2045-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2222

2260

December 6, 2006

The City Record

43

Grants
Cardiovascular Health Program 2007 — Cuyahoga County Board of Health (O 1863-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2251
COPS Interoperable Communications Technology Program — U. S. Department of Justice, COPS
Office (O 1722-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2250
Federal AIDS Prevention Program 2007 — Ohio Department of Health (O 1867-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2252
Immunization Action Plan Program 2007 — Cuyahoga County Board of Health (O 1864-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2251
PROES — Building HOPE Program — LNE & Associates, LLC — Economic Development
(O 2052-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2230
Research Triangle Program — Research Triangle Institute, Inc. (O 1868-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2253
Solid Waste Disposal Program 2007 — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District (O 1865-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2252
STD Control Program 2007 — Ohio Department of Health (O 1869-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2253
Tobacco Control Program 2007 — Cuyahoga County Board of Health (O 1866-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2252

Health Department
Air Quality Division — operation — grant — Ohio Environmental Protection Agency — amend
Ord. 941-06 (O 1870-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2253
Cardiovascular Health Program 2007 — grant — Cuyahoga County Board of Health
(O 1863-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2251
Federal AIDS Prevention Program 2007 — grant — Ohio Department of Health (O 1867-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2252
Immunization Action Plan Program 2007 — grant — Cuyahoga County Board of Health
(O 1864-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2251
Research Triangle Program — grant — Research Triangle Institute, Inc. (O 1868-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2253
Solid Waste Disposal Program 2007 — grant — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste
District (O 1865-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2252
STD Control Program 2007 — grant — Ohio Department of Health (O 1869-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2253
Tobacco Control Program 2007 — grant — Cuyahoga County Board of Health
(O 1866-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2252

Homeless
Homeless assistance activities — contracts — non-profit agencies — Cuyahoga County
- Cleveland/Cuyahoga County Office of Homeless Services (O 1884-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236

Land Reutilization Program
E. 70th St., Zoeter & Lawnview Aves. — New Mount Zion Baptist Church (O 1461-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2235
E. 84th St. — Lillian Roberts (O 1733-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2235
Gaylord Ave. — Union Miles Development Corporation (O 2055-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2232
Greater Cleveland Habitat for Humanity — scattered sites (Ward 8) (O 2054-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2230

Lease Agreement
Business Aircraft Center — office space — Cleveland Burke Lakefront Airport (O 1439-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2250
Circadian Knight Corp. d/b/a Top Gun — office space — Burke Lakefront Airport (O 1847-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2235

Leases
International Women’s Air and Space Museum, Inc. — Burke Lakefront Airport
(O 1852-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2235
Wall murals — amend Sects. 350.01, 350.03, 350.06, 350.07, & 350.10 — new Sects. 350.161
& 350.162 — airport land protective district — amend Sec. 341.021 — Clear Channel
Outdoor — lease — billboard — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport(O 1282-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2244

Liquor Permits
E. 21st St., 2045 — objection (Ward 7) (R 2021-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2243
E. 2nd St., 2123 — objection — withdraw (Ward 13) (R 2056-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2234
E. 93rd St., 3230 — objection (Ward 5) (R 2057-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2234
Euclid Ave., 18310 — objection — withdraw (Ward 10) (R 2018-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2242
Fairfield Ave., 1027 — objection — withdraw (Ward 13) (R 2014-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2241
Forest Ave., 12916 — objection — withdraw (Ward 4) (R 2020-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2243
Frankfort Ave., 620 -objection — withdraw (Ward 13) (R 2017-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2242
Harvard Ave., 16820 — transfer (Ward 1) (F 2061-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221
Kinsman Ave., 7535 — transfer (Ward 5) (F 2060-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221
Lee Rd., 4344 — objection (Ward 1) (R 2058-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2235
Superior Ave., 12333 — objection (Ward 9) (R 2019-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2242
W. 105th St., 332 — transfer (Ward 19) (F 2062-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221

2261

The City Record

44

December 6, 2006

Ohio Department of Public Health
Federal AIDS Prevention Program 2007 — grant (O 1867-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2252
STD Control Program 2007 — grant (O 1869-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2253

Panhandling
Aggressive solicitation — amend Section 605.031 (O 880-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2243

Permits
Taxi cabs — limit the number — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(O 1761-A-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2233

Personnel Department
Mentoring program, City of Cleveland — new Sec. 171.03 (O 1239-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236

Plats
Clinton Court Subdivision — Creating Lots 1 through 5 & Block “A” (Ward 13) (F 2063-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221

Port Control Department
Ace Taxi Services, Inc. — agreements — outbound taxicab concession — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (O 1761-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2233-T
Airport Marketing Income, LLC — Concession Agreement — amend Ord. No. 991-04
(O 1721-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2250
Business Aircraft Center — Lease Agreement — office space at Cleveland Burke Lakefront
Airport (O 1439-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2250
Circadian Knight Corp. d/b/a Top Gun — Lease Agreement — office space — Burke Lakefront
Airport (O 1847-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2235
International Women’s Air and Space Museum, Inc. — lease — Burke Lakefront Airport
(O 1852-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2235
Marketing and advertising services, materials and equipment — professional services —
Cleveland Hopkins International and Burke Lakefront Airports —
amend Ord. 8-05 (O 1754-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2251
Norfolk Southern Railway Company — license agreement — sewer line — Milepost CD-192.23 —
Port Control (O 1848-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2235
Promotions, and public service announcements — exchange of, or acceptance of, services —
agreements — local, state, and federal agencies and non-profit organizations —
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport and special
events (O 1849-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2235
Taxi cabs — limit the number — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(O 1761-A-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2233

Public Hearings (Notices)
Deise Ave., Maxwell Ave., Aspinwall Ave., E. 140th St. (parcels bounded by) — Change the
Use Districts — Residence Industry (O 1549-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2239
E. 150th St. (east) — north of St. Clair Ave. — change the Use and Area Districts —
Multi-Family Residential District and a ‘C’ Area District (O 1897-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
Euclid Ave. (north), east of Avalon Rd. — change the Use, Area and Height District —
Multi-Family Residential District, a ‘D’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District
(O 1973-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
Jennings Rd. — north of Beltline St., south of I-71 — change zoning of land — Unrestricted
Industry District, an ‘A’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District
(O 1898-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
Shawnee Ave. property (south side near intersection of Neff Rd. & E. 185th St.) — change
the zoning — Family Residential District (O 1765-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
St. Catherine Ave. (south) — change the Use, Area and Height District — General Retail
Business District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District
(O 1896-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
University Circle Design District (UCDD) — establish (O 1895-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
W. 65th St. & Storer Ave. (northwest corner) — change the Use District — Shopping Center
District (O 1885-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240

2262

December 6, 2006

The City Record

45

Recognition
Gilson, Colleen (R 2068-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
English and Irish Government — Good Friday Agreement — bring to fullness the
promises (R 2016-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2241

Safety Department
Aggressive solicitation — amend Section 605.031 (O 880-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2243
COPS Interoperable Communications Technology Program — grant — U. S. Department of Justice,
COPS Office (O 1722-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2250
LifePak 12 defibrillators & LifePak 500 automatic external defibrillators — maintenance —
Medtronic Physio-Control — contracts (O 1877-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236

Service Department
Friends of Mt. Pleasant — banners and lights — Luke Easter Park (O 2022-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2254
Pearl Road Bridge No. 118 & CSX Railroad — rehabilitation — giving consent — County
Commissioners — allocation of County Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds
(O 2049-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2228

Sewers
Norfolk Southern Railway Company — license agreement — sewer line — Milepost CD-192.23 —
Port Control (O 1848-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2235

Tabled Legislation
Ace Taxi Services, Inc. — agreements — outbound taxicab concession — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (O 1761-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2233-T
Mentoring program, City of Cleveland — new Sec. 171.03 (O 1239-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236-T
Terms of payment — amend Sec. 185.41 (O 1074-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2236-T

Taxicabs
Ace Taxi Services, Inc. — agreements — outbound taxicab concession — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (O 1761-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2233-T
Taxi cabs — limit the number — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(O 1761-A-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2233

Union-Miles Development Corporation
Gaylord Ave. — Land Reutilization Program (O 2055-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2232

University Circle
University Circle Design District (UCDD) — establish (O 1895-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240

Utilities Department
Cognos Corporation — contracts — Cognos’ Financial Information System — Public Utilities
(O 2050-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2229
Water revenue bonds — issuance and sale — pay improvements costs — waterworks system
(O 2045-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2222

Ward 01
Harvard Ave., 16820 — transfer — liquor permit (F 2061-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221
Lee Rd., 4344 — objection — liquor permit (R 2058-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2235

Ward 02
Gaylord Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Union Miles Development Corporation
(O 2055-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2232

2263

The City Record

46

December 6, 2006

Ward 03
Friends of Mt. Pleasant — banners and lights — Luke Easter Park (O 2022-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2254

Ward 04
Forest Ave., 12916 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 2020-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2243

Ward 05
E. 93rd St., 3230 — objection — liquor permit (R 2057-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2234
Kinsman Ave., 7535 — transfer — liquor permit (F 2060-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221
Saul, Jack — congratulation (R 2066-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221
St. Catherine Ave. (south) — change the Use, Area and Height District —
General Retail Business District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District
(O 1896-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240

Ward 06
University Circle Design District (UCDD) — establish (O 1895-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240

Ward 07
Carter, Laveria — condolence (R 2065-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221
E. 21st St., 2045 — objection — liquor permit (R 2021-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2243
E. 70th St., Zoeter & Lawnview Aves. — Land Reutilization Program — New Mount Zion Baptist
Church (O 1461-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2235
E. 84th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Lillian Roberts (O 1733-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2235

Ward 08
Greater Cleveland Habitat for Humanity — Land Reutilization Program — scattered sites
(O 2054-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2230
University Circle Design District (UCDD) — establish (O 1895-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240

Ward 09
Superior Ave., 12333 — objection — liquor permit (R 2019-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
University Circle Design District (UCDD) — establish (O 1895-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240

Ward 10
Deise Ave., Maxwell Ave., Aspinwall Ave., E. 140th St. (parcels bounded by) — Change the
Use Districts — Residence Industry (O 1549-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2239
E. 150th St. (east) — north of St. Clair Ave. — change the Use and Area Districts —
Multi-Family Residential District and a ‘C’ Area District (O 1897-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
Euclid Ave. (north), east of Avalon Rd. — change the Use, Area and Height District —
Multi-Family Residential District, a ‘D’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District
(O 1973-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
Euclid Ave., 18310 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 2018-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2242

Ward 11
Shawnee Ave. property (south side near intersection of Neff Rd. & E. 185th St.) — change
the zoning — Family Residential District (O 1765-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240

Ward 13
Center St., 2019 — redevelopment agreement — The K & D Group (O 2053-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2230
Clinton Court Subdivision — Creating Lots 1 through 5 & Block “A” — Plat (Ward 13)
(F 2063-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221
E. 2nd St., 2123 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 2056-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2234
Fairfield Ave., 1027 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 2014-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2241
Frankfort Ave., 620 -objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 2017-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2242
Gilson, Colleen — recognition (R 2068-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221
Jennings Rd. — north of Beltline St., south of I-71 — change zoning of land —
Unrestricted Industry District, an ‘A’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District
(O 1898-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240

2264

December 6, 2006

The City Record

47

Ward 14
Gilson, Colleen — recognition (R 2068-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221

Ward 15
Jennings Rd. — north of Beltline St., south of I-71 — change zoning of land — Unrestricted
Industry District, an ‘A’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District (O 1898-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240

Ward 16
Pearl Road Bridge No. 118 & CSX Railroad — rehabilitation — giving consent — County
Commissioners — allocation of County Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds
(O 2049-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2228

Ward 17
Gilson, Colleen — recognition (R 2068-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221
W. 65th St. & Storer Ave. (northwest corner) — change the Use District — Shopping Center
District (O 1885-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240

Ward 19
W. 105th St., 332 — transfer — liquor permit (F 2062-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221

Ward 20
Failor, Gary — congratulation (R 2067-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221
Gilson, Colleen — recognition (R 2068-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221
Hendrix, Dolphus “Dino” — condolence (R 2064-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221
Sodowsky, Jeff — welcome (R 2069-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221

Welcome
Sodowsky, Jeff (R 2069-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221

Zoning
Deise Ave., Maxwell Ave., Aspinwall Ave., E. 140th St. (parcels bounded by) — Change the
Use Districts — Residence Industry (O 1549-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2239
E. 150th St. (east) — north of St. Clair Ave. — change the Use and Area Districts —
Multi-Family Residential District and a ‘C’ Area District (O 1897-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
Euclid Ave. (north), east of Avalon Rd. — change the Use, Area and Height District —
Multi-Family Residential District, a ‘D’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District
(O 1973-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
Jennings Rd. — north of Beltline St., south of I-71 — change zoning of land —
Unrestricted Industry District, an ‘A’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District
(O 1898-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
Shawnee Ave. property (south side near intersection of Neff Rd. & E. 185th St.) — change
the zoning — Family Residential District (O 1765-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
St. Catherine Ave. (south) — change the Use, Area and Height District — General Retail
Business District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District (O 1896-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
University Circle Design District (UCDD) — establish (O 1895-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240
W. 65th St. & Storer Ave. (northwest corner) — change the Use District — Shopping Center
District (O 1885-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2240

2265

