The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

April the Twelfth, Two Thousand and Six

Frank G. Jackson
Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Emily Lipovan
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Nina Turner
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Joe Cimperman
Joseph Santiago
Brian J. Cummins
Kevin J. Kelley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Containing

PAGE

City Council
Rules of Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
4
24
24
27
27
28
29
29
29
31
36
37

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Nina Turner..................................................16204 Sunny Glen Avenue
44128
Robert J. White .................................................9703 Cardwell Avenue
44105
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Patricia J. Britt........................................................12402 Britton Drive
44120
Fannie M. Lewis.........................................................7416 Star Avenue
44103
Sabra Pierce Scott.................................................1136 East 98th Street
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Roosevelt Coats ....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
44112
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Joe Cimperman....................................................3053 West 12th Street
44113
Joseph Santiago ...................................................3169 West 14th Street
44109
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Kevin J. Kelley ..............................................6608 Woodhaven Avenue
44144
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Michael A. Dolan ...............................................16519 West Park Road
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Emily Lipovan, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Michael A. House, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Debra Linn Talley, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Julius Ciaccia, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Interim Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNELAND HUMAN RESOURCES – Trudy Hutchinson, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – ______________, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Angel Guzman, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James
Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; ___________, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director ____________, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director _______________, Law Director
Robert J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Rev. Sam Edward Small.
FAIR CAMPAIGN FINANCE COMMISSION – Chris Warren, C. Ellen Connally, Hillary S.
Taylor.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council
Member ____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; _________, Vice Chair; Daniel Conway, Doris
Honsa, Lisa Camacho.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.

DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – John Mok, Interim Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner

CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Interim Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue

POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Interim Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Anjou Parekh, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – _____________, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Interim Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley; Councilman Nina Turner.

CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – India Pierce Lee, Chair;
Laura M. Noble, Vice Chair; Robert Brown, Thomas Coffey, Jennifer Coleman, Lee,
Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, Ari Maron, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Council Member Joe
Cimperman, Robert Jackimowicz; Robert Keiser, Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
Judge Emanuella Groves
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
Judge Anita Laster Mays
Judge Lauren C. Moore
Judge Charles Patton, Jr.
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
Judge Michael Ryan
Judge Angela R. Stokes
Judge Joan Synenberg
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
Judge Joseph J. Zone

Courtroom
14B
15A
13A
13D
14C
14A
12B
13B
12A
15C
13C
12C
14D

Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Michael E. Flanagan – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak – Bailiff;
Regina Daniel – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2006

Vol. 93

No. 4818

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, APRIL 10, 2006
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority

10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Britt, Coats, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek, Santiago, Turner.

of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

The City Record is available

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Dolan,
Kelley, Polensek, Santiago, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chair, Westbrook, Vice Chair, Conwell, Dolan,
Lewis, Reed, Zone.

online at

www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

EMILY LIPOVAN
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2006-2009
MONDAY—Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property & Recreation Committee: Johnson, Chair; White, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek,
Turner.
9:30 A.M. — Health & Human Services Committee: Britt, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair; Conwell, Kelley,
Reed, Santiago, Westbrook.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Brady, Chair; Turner, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Johnson,
Polensek, Reed, Santiago, White.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Dolan, Vice
Chair; Cimperman, Lewis, Pierce
Scott, Reed, White.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Britt,
Coats, Conwell, Pierce Scott, Westbrook, White, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Pierce
Scott, Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair;
Brady, Cimperman, Cummins, Coats,
Lewis, Westbrook. Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
Lewis, Chair; Santiago, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Coats, Conwell, Johnson, Turner.

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland,
Kelley,
Pierce
Scott,
Polensek.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Sweeney, Chair; Britt, Kelley,
Pierce Scott, Santiago, Westbrook,
White.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats, Chair; Pierce Scott, Kelley,
Sweeney, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, April 10, 2006
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Britt, Cimperman, Cleveland, Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Dolan,
Johnson, Kelley, Polensek, Reed,
Santiago, Sweeney, Turner, Westbrook, White and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff; Valarie J. McCall, Chief of
Government Affairs; Maureen Harper,
Chief
of
Communications;
Michael A. House, Press Secretary;
Debra Linn Talley, Director of Equal
Opportunity; Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Flask, Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich,
Brown, Griffin, Interim Directors
Ciaccia, Wasik, Mok, Carroll and
Rybka.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
prayer was offered by Rev. John J.
Cregan, Pastor of Our Lady of
Angels Church, located at 3644
Rocky River Drive, in Ward 21.
Pledge of Allegiance.

with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Polensek.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 664-06.
Re: New Application — 4979902 —
Lakeside Marine Fuel, Inc., 4915 N.
Marginal Road. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 665-06.
Re: New Application — 4901131 —
KSK Restaurants, Inc., d.b.a. Pizza
Joe’s & Deli, 4260 Fulton Road.
(Ward 16). Received.
File No. 666-06.
Re: New Application — 0251590 —
ARR Minute Market, Inc., d.b.a. ARR
Minute Market, Inc., 13302 St. Clair
Avenue. (Ward 10). Received.
File No. 667-06.
Re: New Application — 1351124 —
Cedar 70, Inc., d.b.a. Upstate Market,
7002 Cedar Avenue. (Ward 5). Received.
File No. 668-06.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 6549209 — 1-2-3 Richmond,
Inc., 15914 St. Clair Avenue, first
floor and basement. (Ward 11). Received.
File No. 669-06.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 1434253 — China House
Restaurant, Inc., first floor and basement, 5238 St. Clair Avenue. (Ward
13). Received.
File No. 670-06.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 8871311 — 3203 West 25th,
Inc., d.b.a. Jay’s Market, 3203 West
25th Street. (Ward 14). Received.
File No. 671-06.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 5983795 — Josephine E.
Miller, d.b.a. Bull Shooter’s Bar &
Grill, 1311 East 49th Street, first floor.
(Ward 13). Received.
File No. 672-06.
Re: Transfer of Location Application — 15504980002 — Cleveland State
University, d.b.a. Fenn Tower Panel
Room, 2121 Euclid Avenue, Fenn
Tower Panel Room 303. (Ward 13).
Received.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
MOTION
10:00 A.M. — Aviation & Transportation Committee: Kelley, Chair;
Westbrook, Vice Chair; Brancatelli,
Britt, Cleveland, Dolan, Turner.

On the motion of Council Member
Kelley, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting were dispensed

655

File No. 673-06.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 7467400 —
Gennie Rodriguez, 2704 Clark Avenue. (Ward 14). Received.

The City Record

4
File No. 674-06.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 3365513 —
Gregg C. Korney, LLC, d.b.a. Velocity,
10423-25-27
Clifton
Boulevard.
(Ward 18). Received.

RULES OF COUNCIL
______________
RULES OF ORDER
GOVERNING THE COUNCIL OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND
2006-2009

File No. 675-06.
Re: Stock Transfer Application —
4793893 — Korea House Restaurant,
Inc., 3700 Superior Avenue, first
floor and basement. (Ward 13).
Received.

The following rules of order shall
govern the procedures of the City
Council and the conduct of its members.

PLAT

I. MEETINGS: PLACE, TIME OF
CONVENING, QUORUM, ORDER
OF BUSINESS

File No. 676-06.
Riverside Park States Subdivision
Plat. (Ward 20).
Approved by Committees on Public
Service and City Planning.
Without objection, plat approved.
Yeas 19. Nays 0.

Rule 1. Meetings – Place. All meetings of the Council shall be held in
the Council Chamber in the City
Hall, unless otherwise ordered by
the Council.

CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 677-06—Mildred Stanley.
Res. No. 678-06—Clarence Mitchell.
Res.
No.
679-06
—
Eddie
G.
Williams.
Res. No. 680-06—Larry Previte.
Res. No. 681-06—Ora Lee Poole.
Res. No. 682-06—Gary Minor.
Res. No. 683-06—Emmitt Scott.
Res. No. 684-06—David Roth.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 685-06—David Bostwick.
Res. No. 686-06 — Joseph and
Dolores Shega.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 687-06—Tartan Day.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 688-06 — Pastor Tony L.
Williams, Sr.
Res. No. 689-06 — Elder Monique
Williams.
MOTION
By Council Member Brancatelli.
Upon the recommendation of the
Rules Committee, I move that Rule
9 of the Rules of Council be amended and that this Council adopt the
Rules of Council, as amended, for
the remainder of the 2006-2009 Council term, or until such time as further amendments may be recommended by the Rules Committee and
voted upon by this body.
Without
objection,
motion
approved. Yeas 19. Nays 0.

Rule 2. Meetings – Public. All
meetings of the Council or committees thereof shall be public, and
upon request of any citizen desiring
to be heard on any matter, then
under consideration by the Council,
the Council may, on motion, resolve
itself into a Committee of the Whole
and hear such citizen at such time
and for such period as Council may
determine. Persons desiring to be
heard by any committee of Council
on any matter then under consideration may, by consent of such committee, be given an opportunity to
be heard thereon. All Rules of Council minutes and records of the Council shall be open to the public at all
reasonable times.
Rule 3. Regular Meetings. After
the Council has been organized pursuant to Section 28 of the Charter,
regular meetings of the Council
shall be held in the Council Chamber every Monday evening at 7:00
o’clock
P.M.,
unless
otherwise
ordered by motion, resolution or
ordinance. Whenever the regular
meeting falls on a legal holiday or
a special election day – or the day
preceding a legal holiday or primary or other election day, the meeting shall be held on a day to be
fixed by the Council.
Rule 4. Summer Schedule. During
the months of July and August, the
Council shall be on summer schedule and shall meet at such times as
shall be set forth in the resolution
of Council establishing such schedule.
Rule 5. Special Meetings. Special
meetings may be called at any time
by the Mayor, the President of Council, or any five members upon at
least twelve (12) hours written
notice to each member of the Council served personally on each member or left at his usual place of residence; provided, however, that no
such notice need be served on any
Councilmember present at a meeting
of Council at which the President of
Council may give oral notice of the
time and purpose of a special meeting. Any such notice shall state the
subjects to be considered at the
meeting, and no other subjects shall
be there considered.

656

April 12, 2006
Rule 6. Quorum; Professionalism.
A majority of all the members elected to Council shall be a quorum to
do business, but a less number may
adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of absent members in the manner and under such
penalties as shall be prescribed by
these rules. All members shall conduct themselves professionally and
shall attend all official meetings of
Council in appropriate professional
attire.
Rule 7. Order of Business. The
business of all regular meetings of
the Council shall be transacted in
the following order, unless the Council by a two-thirds vote, shall suspend the rules and change the order.
1. Roll call of members.
2. Prayer.
3. Pledge of Allegiance.
4. Disposal of the journal of the
preceding meeting.
5. Reports
and
communications
from the Mayor.
6. Reports
and
communications
from departments, commissions and
other public officers.
7. Other communications, petitions
and memorials.
8. Reports of standing committees.
9. Reports of special committees.
10. Introduction of ordinances and
resolutions.
11. Second reading of ordinances
and resolutions.
12. Third reading of ordinances
and resolutions.
13. Reading and passage of emergency ordinances and resolutions.
14. Miscellaneous business shall
be permitted at the discretion of the
chair.
15. Report of the clerk with reference to absence of members.
16. Adjournment.
The presiding officer may, at any
time without objection of the members of Council, permit a member to
introduce an ordinance, resolution or
motion out of the regular order provided, however, if an objection is
made, a two-thirds vote of all members elected to Council shall be
required to permit such introduction
out of the regular order.
Rule 8. The Calendar. It shall be
the duty of the Clerk to have set
aside conspicuously in The City
Record a portion to be titled “The
Calendar. The following measures
will be on their passage at the next
meeting.” Under this title the Clerk
shall arrange, and have printed in
consecutive order, by title all ordinances and resolutions which are on
for passage at the next meeting of
Council. In the event that any such
ordinances or resolutions have been
amended, the full text of the operative sections of such ordinance or
resolution, as amended, shall be published in addition to the title thereof. When action upon any measure
appearing upon the Calendar is postponed to a day certain, such measure shall be considered on said day
to which postponed whether or not
it appears upon the Calendar of said
day.

April 12, 2006
II. OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
OF COUNCIL
Rule 9. Presiding Officer. The
President of Council, and in the
President’s absence the President of
Council pro tempore, shall preside
over the meetings of the Council. In
the absence of the President of
Council, the Majority Leader shall
serve as the President of Council
pro tempore; in the absence of both
the President of Council and the
Majority Leader, the Majority Whip
shall serve as the President of Council pro tempore. In the absence of
the President of Council, the Majority Leader and the Majority Whip,
the City Clerk shall call the Council to order; and if, after the roll call
is called a quorum shall be present,
the Council shall choose one of its
members President of Council pro
tempore. The President of Council
pro tempore shall preside until the
President of Council appears, but in
no event beyond such meeting, and
shall discharge all the duties and be
clothed with all the powers of the
President of Council as such presiding officer during the President of
Council’s absence. The Presiding
Officer shall call all meetings of the
Council to order at the hour appointed and shall proceed with the order
of business. If a quorum be present,
the Presiding Officer shall give the
members an opportunity for correcting the journal of the previous meeting, a copy of which shall be placed
on the desk of each member of the
Council. In the absence of any objections or corrections, the minutes
shall stand approved. The Presiding
Officer shall preserve order and
decorum, prevent personalities or
the impugning of members’ motives,
confine members in debate to the
question
under
discussion,
shall
decide all points of order subject to
an appeal to the Council, and shall
appoint all standing committees and
such select committees as may be
authorized by Council from time to
time, except in those cases where
the
resolution
authorizing
such
select committees specifically names
the membership thereof.
Rule 10. Members Presiding. The
President of the Council during any
meeting thereof may name any
member to perform the duties of the
chair; but such substitution shall not
extend beyond such meeting.
Rule 11. The Vote Necessary for
Election of President and Clerk. No
candidate for President or Clerk of
Council shall be declared elected
unless the candidate shall have
received a majority vote of all members elected to Council.
Rule 11-1. Roll Call upon Election
of President, and Filling Vacancies
in the Membership of Council. Upon
the roll call for the election of President of Council, Clerk of Council, or
for filling any vacancy in the membership of Council, each member
shall respond by stating the name
of the candidate of his choice eligible for such office or appointment,
which
candidate
shall
not
be
required to be a person duly nominated and whose nomination has

The City Record
been duly seconded, provided, however, that no member shall be
excused from voting hereon except
by unanimous consent.
Rule 12. The City Clerk. The
Council shall choose a Clerk and
such other officers and employees
as may be deemed necessary and fix
their compensation. The Clerk shall
keep the record of the Council, and
the Clerk shall be the editor of The
City Record. The Clerk shall keep a
proper file of all papers and documents which are a part of the transactions of the Council, of meetings
of committees and all orders of the
Council,
and
shall
make
such
records available to the public. The
Clerk shall be secretary to all committees, but may assign an assistant
as secretary to any committee.
When directed by any committee the
Clerk shall cause to be kept minutes
of each meeting of such committee
that shall be kept in record form
and be made available for public
inspection. The record of committee
meetings may be kept in the form
of loose sheet records and need not
be printed in The City Record nor
copied in any other book, except
that the Clerk shall cause to be
printed in The City Record attendance roll calls of committee meetings. In addition, the Clerk shall
report to Council the absence of
members from Council meetings and
shall perform such other and further
duties as may from time to time by
Charter, statute or ordinance be
required of the Clerk.
Rule 12-1. Committee on Council
Personnel and Operations. Not later
than the fourth meeting of the
Council after its organization, the
President of Council shall appoint
six (6) members to a Committee on
Council Personnel and Operations.
In addition to the appointed members, the President of Council shall
also be member of the committee.
The committee shall consider personnel and operational issues of
Council, such as staffing levels, hiring of staff, and technical and operational matters pertaining to the
offices of Council. Upon a vacancy
in Council’s staff, the Clerk of Council shall notify all members of such
vacancy and the President of Council shall convene a meeting of the
Committee on Council Personnel and
Operations to discuss the vacancy.
Prior to filling any staffing vacancy or newly created position, the
Clerk of Council shall forward the
name of the proposed employee to
be hired and the position to be filled
to the members of Council. Within
thirty (30) days following the completion of the employee’s first ninety days of employment, the committee shall report its recommendation
on retaining the employee to Council for a roll call vote of the Council for which a majority vote must
be received.
Rule 12-2. The City Record. The
City Clerk, as editor of The City
Record, shall see that the following
rules are observed in the preparation and introduction of ordinances
and resolutions and in the editing
and printing of The City Record.

657

5
(a) The title of all ordinances and
resolutions shall be confined to a
brief statement of the subject matter of the bill and shall be printed
in bold face type.
(b) Preambles or “whereasas” in
ordinances and resolutions shall be
restricted to one emergency preamble required by the Charter, except
where a whereas is an essential
part of the ordinance or resolution.
(c) Ordinances of a general or
permanent nature shall, in their
preparation, be divided into short
sections, wherever practicable, in
order to permit amendments being
made without printing so much of
the original ordinance.
(d) The practice of introducing
resolutions of condolence and congratulatory
resolutions
shall
be
recorded by number and reserved
for cases of death of outstanding citizens or occasion of great civic
importance. In lieu of such resolution of condolence the Clerk shall
have prepared a suitable memorial
which shall be sent to the relatives
of the deceased and The City Record
shall contain the request of the
member of Council for such memorial and the fact that such memorial
has been sent.
(e) The minutes and proceedings
of administrative boards shall be
prepared in abstract form and be
printed in six (6)-point type in The
City Record.
(f) Once each year, there shall be
prepared for distribution or printed
in The City Record a cumulative
subject index covering the proceedings of the Council.
Rule 13. Sergeant-at-Arms. The
Council shall appoint a Sergeant-atArms who shall be in attendance
at all meetings of Council. The
Sergeant-at-Arms, under the direction of the presiding officer, shall
preserve order in the Council Chamber and adjoining rooms, and in the
manner to be prescribed by ordinance shall compel the attendance
of absent members.
III. COMMITTEES OF COUNCIL
Rule 14. Standing Committees. Not
later than the fourth meeting of the
Council after its organization, the
President of Council shall appoint
one
(1)
standing
committee
of
eleven members; four (4) standing
committees of nine (9) members
each; and six (6) standing committees of seven (7) members each of
whom the first named members
shall be chair and the second named
shall be vice-chair. All committee
appointments, made under this Rule,
including that of chair and vicechair, the vice-chair shall preside
until the chair appears, and shall
discharge all the duties and be
clothed with all the powers of the
chair during such absence. In the
absence of the chair and the vicechair and a quorum being present,
a temporary chair shall be selected
by a majority vote of the members
present who shall preside until the
chair or vice-chair appears and the
temporary chair shall discharge all
the duties and be clothed with all
the powers of the chair during such
absence.

6
A. The eleven member committee
and its subject matter is as follows:
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, to
which shall be referred all ordinances, resolutions and other matters pertaining to finances, indebtedness, appropriations, the payment
of monies not provided for by previous legislation, taxation and all
matters pertaining to the Departments of Finance, Law and Personnel, the standardization of salaries
and wages, union agreements, civil
service, the pensioning of employees
and the sale, lease or purchase of
real estate.
B. The nine member committees
and the subject matters that shall
be referred to them shall be as follows:
a. COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC UTILITIES, to which are referred all ordinances, resolutions and other matters
pertaining to the City’s water supply,
sewage disposal, municipal electrical
light plant and all matters pertaining to the Department of Public Utilities, and all ordinances, resolutions
and other matters pertaining to
telecommunications, rates to be paid
by the City to the public utility for
street lighting or other utility services and to existing or proposed
franchises including railway and
railroad operations and the Regional
Sewer District.
b. COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SERVICE, to which shall be referred all
ordinances, resolutions and other
matters pertaining to streets and
street uses, street and sewer improvements, switch track and pipe
lines, elimination of grade crossings, street cleaning, waste collection
and
disposal,
bridges
and
underpasses, taxes and assessments
for sidewalks and street improvements, all banners across streets
and all matters pertaining to the
Department of Public Service.
c. COMMITTEE ON COMMUNITY
AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT,
to which shall be referred all ordinances, resolutions and other matters pertaining to the redevelopment
of blighted areas, the rehabilitation
and conservation of property, the
alleviation of the housing shortage
and alum clearance, economic and
industrial development, the Land
Reutilization Program and all matters relating to the Departments of
Community Development and Economic Development.
d.
COMMITTEE
ON
PUBLIC
SAFETY, to which shall be referred
all ordinances, resolutions and other
matters pertaining to police, fire,
and emergency medical services and
matters pertaining to the Boxing
and Wrestling Commission, to the
enforcement of the traffic code and
off street parking and to inspection
of buildings, and all matters pertaining to the Department of Public
Safety, and to tag days.
C. The seven member committees
and the subject matters that shall
be referred to them shall be as follows:

The City Record
a. COMMITTEE ON CITY PLANNING, to which shall be referred all
ordinances, resolutions and other
matters relating to city planning,
the City Planning Commission and
matters relating to zoning.
b.
COMMITTEE
ON
HEALTH
AND HUMAN SERVICES, to which
shall be referred all ordinances, resolutions and other matters pertaining to public health, public charities, direct and work relief, city correctional and charitable institutions;
and all matters pertaining to the
Departments of Public Health and
Welfare,
Human
Resources
and
Aging, and all matters pertaining to
health, sanitation, unemployment,
job training, air pollution control,
lake and river pollution, smoke
abatement and nuisances.
c. COMMITTEE ON LEGISLATION, to which shall be referred all
ordinances, resolutions and other
matters pertaining to county, state
and federal legislation affecting the
city annexations, redistricting, charter amendments and all initiative,
referendum and recall petitions; all
matters relating to courts; ordinances relating to licenses and
those imposing fines, penalties, forfeitures or imprisonment, printing
and advertising.
d. COMMITTEE ON AVIATION
AND TRANSPORTATION, to which
shall be referred all ordinances,
resolutions and other matters pertaining to the municipally-owned
airports and any and all matters
concerning aviation; and all ordinances, resolutions and other matters pertaining to bridges, harbors,
river and lake travel, public transportation and bus, limousine and
taxicab operations and all matters
pertaining to the Department of
Port Control, the Regional Transit
Authority and the Port Authority.
e.
COMMITTEE
ON
PUBLIC
PARKS, PROPERTY AND RECREATION, to which shall be referred
all ordinances, resolutions and other
matters pertaining to public parks,
public
places,
public
recreation,
playgrounds and public beaches; to
all public buildings not specifically
related to or belonging to some
department or division, including
the City Hall, Public Auditorium,
the Public Stadium, the city markets, and golf courses and cemeteries; to the purchase or sale of all
property not specifically referred to
another committee of this Council
except
for
the
Committee
on
Finance, and all matters pertaining
to the Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
f.
COMMITTEE
ON
EMPLOYMENT,
AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION
AND TRAINING, to which shall be
referred all ordinances, resolutions
and other matters pertaining to the
formulation and monitoring of job
participation linkage for publicly
funded development projects; the
oversight of affirmative action policies, certification of minority and
female business enterprises, and
contract compliance within the affir-

658

April 12, 2006
mative action goals of the City; and
the formulation of job training policies and performance monitoring of
job training contracts.
Rule 14-1. Approval of Council of
Appointments by Mayor. Whenever
the approval of Council is required
for appointments by the Mayor, the
President of Council, upon request
of the Mayor for approval of any
appointment, shall forthwith appoint
a select committee of five (5) members to which shall be referred the
name of each person whose appointment is submitted for approval of
Council. The select committee shall
report to Council its recommendation
thereon. Thereupon Council, as part
of the appropriate order of business,
shall proceed to vote upon the
approval of each appointment; the
question being “Shall the Council
approve the appointment by the
Mayor?” If a majority of all the
members elected to Council vote
aye, the Council shall approve such
appointment.
Rule 14-2. Member Pro Tempore.
In the event of the absence of a
member from a published scheduled
committee, the Council President,
upon the request of the chair of the
committee, may appoint a Councilmember to serve as a member pro
tempore for purposes of that committee meeting. The appointment by
the Council President of the member
to that committee shall expire upon
completion of that committee meeting. Upon appointing a member pro
tempore, the Council President shall
notify the members of Council of the
appointment and shall cause such
appointment to be reflected in the
City Record.
Rule 14-3. Removal of Members
from Committees. The President of
Council, may for cause at any time,
remove and replace any member or
members of any standing committee
established under Rule 14 or from
any special committee or committees.
Rule 15. Committee Meetings. A
majority of the members of a committee shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business. Each
committee shall hold its regular
meetings at the time and place fixed
in the schedule, as prepared by the
President of Council and Clerk of
Council in conference with the
chairs of the several committees.
Rule 15-1. Meeting. A committee
meeting schedule shall be published
by the Clerk. Should the chair of a
committee find it necessary to hold
the meeting at another time and
place, the chair shall cause notice
thereof to be given and posted at
least twenty-four (24) hours before
the new time fixed for the meeting.
All committee meetings shall be
open, and a record of the attendance
of members of the committee and
the action taken there, shall be kept
by the secretary of the committee in
a record provided for that purpose.
Such record shall be kept on file
with the Clerk of Council and open
to public inspection as other public

April 12, 2006
records. No legislation shall be
amended while in committee and it
shall be the duty of the committee
to
recommend
to
Council
the
approval, disapproval or amendment
of any legislation pending before
the committee. A majority of the
members of a committee shall be
necessary for the recommendation
of approval, disapproval or amendment of any legislation pending
before
a
committee.
All
other
motions shall require only a majority vote of the members of committee present.
Rule 15-2. Councilmember Absences.
Each absence of a committee member, not authorized by the chair for
good cause, or the absence of the
chair, not authorized by the President of Council for good cause, shall
be deemed a violation of the Rules
of Council under Section 29 of the
Charter, punishable by a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
unauthorized absence. For the purpose of this Subsection 15(b), but
not for purposes of voting on recommendations to legislation, a committee member or chair thereof shall
also be deemed absent if a committee member or chair reports to the
committee meeting later than fifteen (15) minutes after the scheduled time for the commencement of
said meeting or when after the commencement of said meeting leaves
the meeting, except in case of necessity or emergency, without the
authority of the chair or acting
chair. Absence of a member of a
committee from three (3) consecutive meetings, unless authorized by
the chair of such committee, may
upon the recommendation of such
committee, cause the removal of
such member from such committee
by the President of Council.
Rule 15-3. Committee Room Seating. Seats at the table in the committee room shall be reserved for
members of the committee, the
Mayor and administrative officials
having business before the committee, members of Council not members
of
the
committee,
persons
specifically invited by the chair or
by a vote of the committee, reporters, representatives of civic organizations and of organized labor, and
it shall be the duty of the Clerk of
committees to see to it that the foregoing
precedence
of
seating
is
strictly followed.
Rule 15-4. Rules of Committees. Except in case of obvious inconsistency
or inapplicability, committee hearings shall be governed by the rules
applicable to Council proceedings.
Rule 16. Reports. No ordinance,
resolution, petition, or other matters
referred to a committee for action
shall be approved or disapproved
and reported out until it shall have
first been considered at a committee
meeting regularly called as provided for herein and no committee shall
consider or hold a hearing on any
proposed legislation until it has
been introduced in Council and
referred to the committee. The chair,
upon motion of any member that
shall not require a second, shall put

The City Record
the question of the recommendation
of approval or of approval when
amended. If a majority of the members of the committee vote affirmatively, such legislation shall be
reported forthwith to Council as
“Recommended for Passage”, but if
a majority of the members of the
committee vote negatively on such
question, such legislation shall be
reported forthwith to Council as a
recommendation of adversal of such
legislation. The vote on all matters
before
the
committee
shall
be
recorded in the minutes of the committee meeting. When a majority of
a committee has reported, recommending or not recommending the
passage, adoption or approval of the
legislation under consideration, the
minority may present a minority
report. All such reports shall be in
writing and signed by the members
of the committee voting in favor of
or against the report.
Rule 17. Committee of the Whole.
Upon declaration by the Council
President without objection or by
motion of a Councilmember supported by a majority vote of Council, the
Council shall resolve itself into a
Committee of the Whole for the purpose of hearing from a person who
is not a member of the Council, or
for the purpose of considering business generally, or for the purpose
stated in the motion. When the
Council shall decide to go into Committee of the Whole, the regular
officers shall continue to serve,
without objection, otherwise the
Council shall appoint a Chair to preside, and the presiding officer of the
Council shall leave the chair. The
rules of Council, in so far as practicable, shall be observed in the
Committee of the Whole; however, a
roll call of ayes and nays shall not
be in order.
Rule 17-1. Joint Committee. When
it is desired that legislation shall be
considered by two or more standing
committees jointly, a reference may
be made by the President of Council to a joint committee comprised
of the membership of said standing
committees, which shall operate as
a single committee. A quorum of a
joint committee shall consist of a
majority of the members thereof,
counting membership in each committee separately, so that a member
of each or two or more committees
constituting such joint committee
shall be counted once for each committee on which he/she is a member.
A
majority
vote,
similarly
counted, shall be required for action
by such joint committee. The President of Council shall determine the
chair of the joint committee from
the chair of the standing committees
that make up the joint committee.
Rule 17-2. Subcommittee. When
determined to be in furtherance of
the legislative process, the chair of
a standing committee and the President of Council may designate certain members of said standing committee to form a subcommittee thereof for the purpose of examining
such matters as are identified by
the chair and President at the time
the subcommittee is formed. At the

659

7
completion of its work, the subcommittee shall report its findings to
the entire standing committee or, in
the discretion of the President of
Council, the entire Council.
IV. DUTIES, PRIVILEGES AND
DECORUM OF MEMBERS
Rule 18. Roll Call of Council.
Every member shall be seated at the
time of roll call, otherwise the member shall not be recorded as present
except upon order of Council. The
Clerk shall publish in The City
Record the names of the members
present and absent.
Rule 19. Duty to Vote. Every member present shall vote on all questions upon the call of the yeas, and
nays, unless excused by the unanimous consent of the Council; except
that no member shall vote on any
question in which they are financially interested or which in any
way involves personal or private
rights. Any member present, unless
so excused, or excepted as above,
who refuses to vote upon any question relating to the city government,
upon which the member may vote,
when the yeas and nays are being
taken shall be guilty of contempt of
the Council, and may, for such contempt, be censured by a majority
vote of the Council or may be
expelled from the Council by a vote
of two-thirds of all the members of
the Council pursuant to Section 29
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland.
Rule 20. Yeas and Nays. On the
passage of every ordinance or resolution, and on the appointment of
every officer, the vote shall be
taken by yeas and nays, entered in
full upon the records and published
in the official journal. On any other
question, the yeas and nays shall be
entered upon the record on the
request of any member. Upon the
call of the yeas and nays, the Clerk
shall call the names of members
alphabetically and record the vote.
Rule 21. Change of Vote. Before
the announcement of the vote on
any question, the Clerk shall read
the vote of each member so taken
upon the demand of any member, at
which time any member on account
of error or for any other reason may
change his/her vote; but no member
shall be permitted to change his/her
vote as recorded after the roll call
has been verified and the result
declared.
Rule 22. Recording of Vote of
Absent Member. Any member, having been unavoidably absent, may
at the next meeting be permitted to
have their vote recorded upon any
question acted upon during such
absence; provided such vote shall
not change the result; and provided
further that such member shall not
be entitled to move a reconsideration of the question to be voted
upon.
Rule 23. Right of Floor. When any
member is about to address the
Council the member shall rise and
respectfully address the presiding

The City Record

8
officer, and when recognized by the
chair shall confine any comments to
the question under debate, avoid
personalities
and
refrain
from
impugning the motives of any other
member’s argument or vote. When
two or more members ask recognition at the same time, the presiding
officer shall name the member who
is first to speak and the exercise of
such discretion by the presiding
officer shall not be subject to appeal
under Rule 26.
Rule
24.
Time
Limitation
of
Speaking.
No
member
shall
be
allowed to speak for a longer time
than 4 minutes at any one time
without the permission of Council.
No member shall speak more than
once on the same legislation until
every other member desiring to
speak on that legislation shall have
had an opportunity to do so. Neither
the Mayor nor any director may
speak longer than 4 minutes upon
the same motion, ordinance or question without the consent of Council.
Rule 25. Members Called to Order.
If any member in speaking or otherwise transgresses the rules of the
Council, the President shall call the
offending member to order. The
member so called to order shall
immediately take his seat unless
permitted
by
the
President
to
explain. Any member may, by raising the point of order, call the attention of the President to such transgression. The President, without
debate, shall decide the point of
order. Every such decision of the
President shall be subject to appeal
to the Council upon motion with a
second.
Rule 26. Right of Appeal. Any
member may appeal to the Council
from a ruling of the presiding officer. The member making the appeal
may briefly state the reason for the
same, and the presiding officer may
briefly explain the ruling; but there
shall be no debate on the appeal and
no other member shall participate in
the discussion. The presiding officer
shall then put the question, “Shall
the decision of the chair be sustained?” If a majority of the members present vote aye, the ruling of
the chair is sustained; otherwise it
is overruled.
Rule 27. Member May Read from
Books, etc. Any member while discussing a question, may read from
books, papers or documents any
matter pertinent to the subject
under consideration without asking
leave; provided, however, that such
reading shall be subject to and
included within the time limitation
prescribed in Rule 24.
Rule 28. Division of Question. If
the question contains two or more
divisible propositions, the presiding
officer may, and upon request of a
member, shall divide the same; but a
motion to strike out a provision and
insert a substitute is not divisible.
Rule 29. Personal Privilege. Any
member may rise to explain a matter personal to the member, and on

stating that it is a matter of personal privilege, the member shall be
recognized by the President, but
shall not discuss a question or issue
in such explanation. Such explanation shall not consume more than 2
minutes of time unless extended by
consent of the Council. Matters of
personal privilege shall yield only
to a motion to recess or adjourn.
Rule 30. No Person, Other Than
the Clerk and the Clerk’s Assistants,
Shall Be Permitted at the Clerk’s
Desk While the Yeas and Nays are
Being Taken. No person, other than
the Clerk and the Clerk’s assistants,
shall be permitted at the Clerk’s
desk while the yeas and nays are
being taken.
V. MOTIONS
Rule 31. Purpose and Form. Motions shall be used only to expedite
the orderly transaction at the business of Council and shall not be substituted for resolutions or ordinances. The form of all motions
shall be “I move that” followed by
the substance of the motion. No second shall be required for any motion
except as specifically provided for
in a rule, but upon demand of any
member any motion shall be withdrawn by the maker before it has
been amended or voted upon. When
a motion is made the presiding officer shall state it before any debate
shall be in order. All motions that
have been entertained by the President of Council shall be entered
upon the minutes.
Rule 32. Precedence of Motions.
When a question is before the Council no motion shall be entertained
except the following:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

To adjourn.
To fix the hour of adjournment.
For the previous question.
To lay on the table.
To postpone to a day certain.
To postpone indefinitely.
To refer to a committee.
To amend.

These motions shall have precedence in the order indicated. The
motion to adjourn and the motion
for the previous question, shall be
put to a vote without debate; the
motion to fix the hour of adjournment shall be debatable only as to
the time of such adjournment; and
all other motions shall be debatable.
Rule 33. The Previous Question.
The motion for the previous question shall require a majority vote of
all members elected to Council; shall
be considered only once; may be
renewed after intervening business;
shall take precedence over all debatable questions and shall be in order
to prevent amendment of undebatable questions. When the previous
question is moved and seconded by
one other member, it shall be put as
follows: “Shall the main question be
now put?” There shall be no further
amendment or debate but pending
amendments shall be put in their
order before the main question. If
the question, “Shall the main ques-

660

April 12, 2006
tion be now put?” be decided in the
negative, the main question remains
before the Council.
Rule 34. Motion to Lay on the
Table. The motion to lay on the
table shall dispose finally of the legislation against which it is invoked
but a motion to lay a pending
amendment to an ordinance or resolution on the table shall not carry
the ordinance or resolution with it.
A motion to lay on the table shall
require a majority vote of all members elected to Council.
Rule 35. Motion to Postpone to a
Day Certain. A motion to postpone
to a day certain shall require a
majority vote of the members present; shall be subject to reconsideration; may be renewed after intervening business; shall be debatable
as to the propriety of the postponement but not upon the merits of the
legislation; and may be amended by
changing the date. Upon the arrival
of the date to which postponed the
legislation shall be considered in
the regular order of business of that
day.
Rule 36. Motion to Postpone Indefinitely. The motion to postpone
indefinitely shall have the same
effect as motion to lay on the table,
and shall require a majority vote of
all members elected to Council.
Motion to postpone indefinitely shall
not be reconsidered; shall be debatable and shall open the legislation
to debate; may be renewed after
intervening business and may not
be amended or laid on the table, and
shall be subject to previous question.
Rule 37. Reconsideration. After
the decision of any question, any
member who voted with the majority may move a reconsideration of
any action at the same or the next
succeeding meeting, provided, however, that a resolution authorizing
or relating to any contract may be
reconsidered at any time before the
final execution thereof. A motion to
reconsider shall require a majority
vote of all the members elected to
Council. After a motion for reconsideration has once been acted upon,
no other motion for a reconsideration thereof shall be made without
unanimous consent of the members
present.
VI. ORDINANCES AND
RESOLUTIONS
Note: “The adoption of a resolution is the proper procedure for an
informal enactment providing for
the disposition of a particular item
of business, while the passage of an
ordinance is the proper procedure
for the enactment of a regulation of
a general or permanent nature.” (19
R.C. L. 895; 46 C.J. 519; 29 O.A. 386).
Rule 38. Introduction. Ordinances
and resolutions shall be introduced
in the Council only in printed or
written form, with the name of the
member
introducing
the
same
endorsed thereon. No ordinance or
resolution affecting the zoning reg-

April 12, 2006
ulations or the construction of public improvements within a particular
ward shall be introduced in Council
in the name of the member of Council from such ward except with that
member’s written permission prior
to such introduction, and when the
member’s name shall be followed by
the
words
“By
departmental
request”, which shall be deemed not
to imply agreement with the purpose of such legislation by reason
of such sponsorship. Ordinances submitted by the initiative shall have
endorsed thereon “Submitted by Initiative Petition”.
Rule 38-1. Preparation of Legislation. In order that adequate time
may be given to the preparation of
legislation,
members
of
Council
shall present requests for legislation
to the Law Department not later
than 5:00 o’clock P.M. on the Friday
preceding the meeting at which
such legislation is to be introduced
for first reading, and not later than
5:00 o’clock P.M. of the Wednesday
preceding introduction of legislation
for passage under suspension of the
rules.
Rule 38-2. Request for Legislation.
All legislation shall have indicated
at the end thereof the date of preparation and the initials of the draftsman and typist; and all legislation
originating in administrative departments shall contain in addition
thereto the name of the head of the
department or division for whom
prepared and the name of the member of Council introducing such legislation shall be followed by the
words “By request” in parentheses.
Rule 38-3. Request for Legislation
for Passage Under Suspension of the
Rules. The Clerk of Council shall
not accept a request for legislation
for passage on introduction under
suspension of the rules unless furnished sufficient copies of such legislation to provide each member of
Council therewith, together with a
like number of copies of a statement
by the Director of the requesting
department setting forth the reasons
requiring
the
immediate
action
thereon. A request for legislation for
passage on introduction under suspension of the rules at the last meeting prior to the Summer recess of
Council or at the final annual meeting of Council shall not be accepted
by the Clerk of Council unless the
required
statement
bears
the
approval of the President of Council. To the extent that circumstances
permit all such legislation shall be
considered informally by at least
one committee of Council, to which
such legislation would otherwise be
referred.
Rule 39. Form of Ordinances. The
enacting clause of all ordinances
shall be “Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland.” except
those submitted by Initiative petition, which shall be “Be it ordained
by the people of the City of Cleveland.” All ordinances before introduction shall be in typewritten form,
with two additional copies, on the
forms to be provided by the City

The City Record
Clerk. No ordinance or resolution or
section thereof shall be revised or
amended unless the new ordinance
or resolution contains the entire
ordinance or resolution, or section
revised or amended, and the original ordinance, resolution, section, or
sections
so
amended
shall
be
repealed.
Rule 40. Emergency Ordinances. If
any emergency ordinance or resolution fails to receive a two-thirds
affirmative vote of all members
elected to Council, such measure
shall cease to be before the Council
as an emergency measure and shall
have the standing that a measure
would have had if it had not been
read as an emergency measure.
Rule 41. Reference to Committee.
All ordinances and resolutions shall
be read by title on the day when
introduced, unless such reading is
dispensed with by a two-thirds vote;
and unless otherwise ordered by the
Council shall be referred by the presiding officer to the appropriate
committee or committees, which reference shall be announced forthwith
by the Clerk. The committee or committees to which the legislation is
so referred shall, after due consideration and at least one public hearing, propose any amendments with
recommendations for approval or
disapproval. When so reported, such
ordinance or resolution shall, unless
otherwise ordered, be read a second
time and laid over until the next
meeting of the Council, when the
same shall be read a third time and
a vote taken thereon. The Council
shall act upon no ordinance or resolution except a resolution of condolence or one of an extreme emergency nature, until it has been
referred to and reported upon by a
committee or committees of Council.
Rule 41-1. Re-reference to Committee.
Any
pending
legislation
may, by a vote of a majority of the
members elected to Council or by
declaration of the Council President
without objection, be referred to any
committee
to
which
previously
referred under these rules, or to any
appropriate committee designated in
the
motion
to
re-refer.
When
referred back to the Council, such
legislation shall have the same
standing as it had at the time when
re-referred.
Rule 42. Reference to More Than
One Committee. Whenever any pending matter is referred to more than
one committee for consideration and
report, said committee may consider
the same in joint session as a joint
committee, if the chairs of the committees concerned consent thereto.
The chair of the committee first
named shall preside at such joint
sessions, and each member of the
joint committee shall have one vote
for each committee of which he/she
is a member composing the joint
committee. A majority of the members of each of the separate committees shall constitute a quorum of
such committee and the vote shall
be taken by roll call of each of the
separate
committees
constituting

661

9
the joint committee. Its report shall
be made in the same manner and
under the same rules as reports are
made by standing committees.
Rule 42-1. Relieving Committees.
Any committee to which an ordinance or resolution has been referred under Rule 41 or re-referred
under Rule 41-1, may be relieved of
further consideration of such legislation by a motion duly made and
adopted by a two-thirds vote of all
members elected to Council or by
the chair of the committee to which
the legislation has been referred
with the consent of the Council
President.
Rule 43. Three Readings. No ordinance or resolution shall be passed
until it has been read on three separate days; unless the reading on
three separate days has been dispensed with by a two-thirds vote of
all members elected to Council. The
final reading shall be in full unless
a written or printed copy of the
measure shall have been furnished
to each member of the Council prior
to such reading. Copies of all first
reading ordinances and resolutions
to be introduced for passage and
adoption under suspension of the
rules and without reading on three
separate days shall be placed on the
members’ desks within the Council
Chambers prior to a vote being
taken on the ordinance or resolution. When it is desired to suspend
this and rule 41 in order to permit
the passage of legislation upon
introduction the question on the
motion for such suspension shall be
as follows: “Shall the Charter and
statutory provisions and rule 43
requiring reading on three separate
days and rule 41 requiring reference
to committees be dispensed with and
Ordinance No. ... (Resolution No. ...)
be placed on final passage?” If twothirds of all the members elected to
Council vote aye, the Charter, statutory and rule requirements requiring reading on three separate days
and reference to committees shall be
suspended. As an exception to the
foregoing, resolutions of condolence
and congratulatory resolutions shall
be read by title only and adopted
viva voce or by rising vote.
Rule 43-1. Copies Required for
Suspension of Rule 43. No ordinance
of a general nature or imposing
penalties which has not been referred to a committee of Council,
shall be passed under suspension of
the rules unless a copy of such ordinance shall have been placed on the
desk of each member prior to the
passage of such ordinance under
suspension of Rule 43.
Rule 44. Appropriation Ordinances.
Ordinances making appropriations
shall be confined to the subject of
appropriation. No money shall be
appropriated except by ordinance.
All ordinances for fixing a tax rate,
the appropriation of money, the
issuance of bonds, the transfer of
money to any fund, or the payment
of claims; and all resolutions and
ordinances whereby the city shall
become liable for the payment of

10
any money, shall be referred without debate to the finance committee
for consideration and report; unless
this requirement shall be suspended
by two-thirds of all the members
elected. The vote of each suspension
shall be taken by yeas and nays and
entered on the record.
Rule 45. Substitute Legislation.
Legislation dealing with the same
subject matter may be substituted
for any pending ordinance or resolution by a majority vote of all the
members elected to Council, upon
the recommendation of any committee to which such legislation has
been referred. Substitute legislation
shall be subject to all the provisions
of the Charter and rules applying to
ordinances on first reading, and the
legislation for which such substitute
is offered shall be laid upon the
table as a final disposition thereof.
Before accepting for introduction
any
substitute
legislation,
the
author of the original legislation
shall be given notice thereof by the
Clerk of Council.
Rule 46. Ordinances Fixing Fines
and Penalties. All ordinances imposing fines, penalties, forfeiture or
imprisonment shall be referred to
the Committee on Legislation, and
the Director of Law shall be asked
to give an opinion thereon.
Rule 47. Amendments. It shall be
in order to amend an ordinance at
any time when not in the hands of
a committee; but if amended after
its second reading, it shall again be
read as the second reading thereof,
and laid over for further and final
action. A majority vote of all the
members elected to Council shall be
necessary for the adoption of an
amendment to any legislation pending before the Council.
Rule 48. Adoption. All ordinances
and resolutions shall require for
passage or adoption a majority vote
of all the members elected. The vote
on their adoption shall be taken by
yeas and nays and entered on the
records of the meeting except as
otherwise provided in these rules.
Rule 49. Signing Ordinances and
Resolutions. All ordinances passed
and resolutions adopted by Council
shall be signed by the President and
presented forthwith to the Mayor by
the Clerk.
Rule 50. Action on Mayor’s Veto.
When the Mayor refuses to sign an
ordinance or resolution or part
thereof and returns such ordinance
or resolution to the Council with
objections, pursuant to Section 37 of
the Charter, the Council shall after
the expiration of not less than one
week following the meeting at
which such vetoed ordinance or resolution is returned, proceed to reconsider the same. After the adoption
of the motion so to reconsider, the
question shall be stated as follows:
“Shall Ordinance No. (Resolution
No.) be passed (or adopted) notwithstanding the veto of the Mayor?
Those voting aye vote to override
the Mayor’s veto. Those voting nay

The City Record
vote to sustain the Mayor’s veto.” If
two-thirds of all the members elected to Council vote aye, such ordinance or resolution vetoed by the
Mayor shall take effect without the
Mayor’s signature.
VII. ADMINISTRATIVE
OFFICERS
Rule 51. Attendance Required. The
Mayor and the directors of all
departments shall be required to
attend the regular and special meeting of Council and shall be provided with seats on the floor of the
Council. They shall be required, at
any such meeting, to answer such
questions relating to the affairs of
the
city
under
their
respective
supervision and control as may be
put to them by any member of the
Council.
Rule 52. Reports of City Officers.
All ordinances, resolutions and communications pertaining to matters
that come under the supervision and
control of the Mayor shall, in addition to being referred to the proper
committees, be also referred to such
respective
administrative
officers
for recommendation and report. Not
later than thirty (30) days after reference to the administrative officer
or officers as the case may be each
ordinance, resolution, or communication so referred shall be returned
to the Clerk of Council with the
endorsement of each such administrative officer’s approval or disapproval of such matter so referred. It
shall be the duty of the Clerk of
Council to enforce this rule rigidly.
The Clerk shall use all diligence in
seeing that departments to which
measures are referred return them
to the Clerk’s office within the time
fixed herein.
Rule 52-1. Mandatory Referral of
Legislation. Mandatory referral of
legislation under Section 76-3 of the
Charter shall be deemed to include
the following matters:
1. Zoning or other regulations of
land use.
2. Acquisition or lease of land for
public uses.
3. Sale or lease of publicly owned
lands.
4.
Vacation
or
dedication
of
streets or alleys.
5. Street widening or street extensions.
6. Permits for private uses of
streets or public property.
7. Determining to proceed with
public improvements.
8. Requests for studies or plan
preparation.
9. Bond issues for capital improvements.
10.Housing.
A request for an additional thirty
(30) day period for further consideration may be granted by the President of Council if the application
for such extension is submitted to
the President before the expiration
of the thirty (30) day period allowed
by Section 76-3 of the Charter. No
further extension of time shall be
allowed except upon motion of a

662

April 12, 2006
member of Council adopted by a
majority vote of all the members
present. Such request shall be filed
with the Clerk of Council.
Rule 52-2. Mutilation of Legislation. No alteration, change, erasure
or mark shall be made upon any
piece of legislation by any person
except the Clerk of Council and then
only pursuant to an amendment
thereto made by Council pursuant to
Rule 47. Nothing shall be physically
attached to any piece of legislation
after introduction thereof except the
fiscal certificate required by Section
106 of the Charter nor shall any
endorsement appear upon any legislation except that of the head of the
department
or
office
to
which
referred or the person duly authorized by such head. Reports of subordinates to the heads of departments or other pertinent data or
reports may be filed with such legislation if referred to in the official
reports endorsed upon the back of
such piece of legislation.
VIII. COUNCIL CHAMBER
Rule 53. Use of Council Chamber.
The Council Chamber shall be used
only for meetings of the Council or
committees thereof, except where
the Council by vote authorizes its
use by persons other than city officials. The Clerk, with the written
approval of the President of Council, may permit other public officials
to use the Council Chamber on public business, when not in use by the
Council or committees.
Rule 54. Privileges of Floor. No
person except members or former
members of the Council, officers
named in the rules, reporters and
persons invited by the President of
Council or by vote of the Council
shall be admitted within the bar of
the
Council
chamber,
and
the
Sergeant-at-Arms shall cause this
rule to be rigidly enforced.
IX. RULES, SUSPENSION,
AMENDMENT AND OTHER
Rule 55. Suspension of Rules. Any
provision of these rules may be suspended at any meeting of the Council, by a majority vote of all the
members elected, except when a
greater number is required by law
or by the rules. The vote on any
such suspensions shall be taken by
yeas and nays and entered upon the
records.
Rule 56. Amending Rules. These
rules may be amended, or new rules
may be adopted by a majority vote
of all members elected to the Council, on the report of the committee
formed for such purpose.
Rule 57. Other Rules. Except as
herein otherwise provided, the proceedings of the Council shall be governed by the City Charter, the Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, and Robert’s Rules of
Order, and it shall be the duty of
the presiding officer to adhere to
and enforce such rules.

April 12, 2006

The City Record

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED

are amended to read, respectively,
as follows:

Ord. No. 645-06.
By
Council
Members
Conwell,
Johnson, Cleveland and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 405.023, relating to the
issuance of continuous violation
tickets to continuous parking infraction offenders, and to amend Sections 405.02, 443.19, 459.01, 459.03,
459.05, 459.06, 459.08, and 459.11, as
enacted and amended by various
ordinances, to authorize the impoundment of vehicles when there
are four or more parking infraction
judgments, to redefine “parking infraction” and “law enforcement officer”, to require the payment of all
outstanding fines before releasing a
vehicle, and to make other amendments to enhance parking enforcement, for the Clerk of the Cleveland
Municipal Court.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 405.023 to read as follows:

Section 405.02
Impounding of
Vehicles
Police officers are authorized to
provide for the removal of a vehicle
under the following circumstances:
(a) When any vehicle is left unattended upon any street, alley or
bridge and constitutes an unreasonable hazard or obstruction to the
normal
movement
of
traffic
or
unreasonably interferes with street
cleaning or snow removal operations, or when any vehicle is left on
any street or public property for
more than seventy-two hours.
(b) (1) Upon complaint of any person adversely affected, when any
motor vehicle, other than an abandoned junk motor vehicle as defined
in Section 4513.63 of the Revised
Code, has been left on private residential or agricultural property as
defined in Section 4513.60 of the
Revised Code for more than four
hours without the permission of the
person having the right to the possession
of
the
property.
(RC
4513.60(A)(1))
(2) When any motor vehicle, other
than an abandoned junk motor vehicle as defined in Section 4513.63 of
the Revised Code, has been left on
a public street or other property
open to the public for the purposes
of vehicular travel, or upon or within the right-of-way of any road or
highway, for forty-eight hours or
longer without notification to the
Chief of Police of the reasons for
leaving the motor vehicle in such
place. (RC 4513.61)
(3) When any motor vehicle is an
abandoned junk motor vehicle as
defined in Section 4513.63 of the
Revised Code and removal is authorized by that Section. (RC 4513.63)
(4) When any junk motor vehicle
as defined in Section 4513.65 of the
Revised Code has not been either
covered by being housed in a
garage or other suitable structure,
or removed from the property, within ten days of the date of receipt of
a notice meeting the requirements
of division (b) of Section 451.27 by
the person having the right to possession of the property on which the
junk motor vehicle is left. (RC
4513.65)
(c) When any vehicle has been
stolen or operated without the consent of the owner.
(d) When any vehicle is parked
on any street or other public property and displays illegal plates or
fails to display the current lawfully
required license plates.
(e) When any vehicle has been
used in or connected with the commission
of
procuring,
soliciting,
prostitution, soliciting drug sales in
violation of Section 607.20, or any
felony.
(f) When any vehicle has been
damaged or wrecked so as to be
inoperable or violates equipment
provisions of this Traffic Code,
whereby its continued operation
would constitute a condition hazardous to life, limb or property.
(g) When any vehicle is left unattended due to the removal of an ill,
injured or arrested operator.

Section 405.023 Continuous Violation Tickets
(a) No person shall stand or park
a vehicle in continuous violation of
any parking infraction offense.
(b) Any person authorized to
issue parking infraction tickets who
observes that a vehicle has been
parked for two hours or more in continuous
violation
of
a
parking
infraction offense may issue a second parking infraction ticket served
in accordance with Chapter 459.
(c) No vehicle found standing or
parked in continuous violation of
any parking infraction offense shall
be ticketed more than twice per calendar day for the same infraction in
the same location.
Section 2. That the following Sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 405.02, as amended by
Ordinance
No.
1593-2000,
passed
December 18, 2000;
Section 443.19, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1684-76, passed June 29,
1976;
Section 459.01, as amended by
Ordinance
No.
1491-01,
passed
August 3, 2005;
Section 459.03, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1882-86, passed July
17, 1986;
Section 459.05, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1995-84, passed September 5, 1984;
Section 459.06, as amended by
Ordinance No. 446-90, passed June 4,
1990;
Section 459.08, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1745-85, passed June
24, 1985; and
Section 459.11, as amended by Ordinance No. 1491-01, passed August 3,
2005,

663

11
(h) When any vehicle has been
operated by any person who failed
to stop in case of accident or collision.
(i) When any vehicle has been
operated by any person who is driving without a lawful license or
while his license has been suspended or revoked.
(j) When any vehicle is found
standing or parked in violation of
the provisions of Section 451.04,
451.05, 451.06, 451.11, 451.13, 453.01,
453.02, 455.05, 455.06 or 455.07 of
these Codified Ordinances and such
vehicle has four or more of any combination of:
(1)
unpaid
parking
infraction
judgments, and/or
(2) notices of liability under Section 413.031 for red light or speeding violations, provided that the
notices of liability under Section
413.031 are not on appeal, and/or
(3) previously issued outstanding
criminal citations or notices of violation of any of the provisions of the
Traffic Code.
(k) When any vehicle constitutes
an unreasonable hazard to persons
or property at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot or emergency
of any kind.
(l) When any vehicle is found
standing or parked in violation of
the provisions of Sections 451.03,
451.041, 451.08 through 451.10, 451.12,
451.15 through 451.25, division (e) or
division (f) of Section 451.33, or division (a) of Section 461.15.
(m) When any vehicle is ordered
immobilized pursuant to Chapters
4503., 4507. or 4511 of the Revised
Code.
(n) When any vehicle that is subject to an order of immobilization
and
impoundment
under
Section
4503.233 of the Revised Code is
found being operated on any street
or highway.
(o) When any vehicle:
(1) displays license plates that
are associated with four or more of
any combination of unpaid parking
infraction judgments and/or notices
of liability under Section 413.031 for
red light or speeding violations, provided that the notices of liability
under Section 413.031 are not on
appeal, and
(2) the vehicle is found standing
or parked on any street or highway
in the Central Business District,
without regard to whether any parking infraction is being committed at
the time. As used in this division,
“Central Business District” has the
same meaning as in Section 325.12
of the Codified Ordinances.
443.19 Renewal of Drivers’ Licenses
All renewals of drivers’ licenses
shall be in accordance with the
procedure prescribed by the Commissioner
of
Assessments
and
Licenses.
No driver’s license shall be renewed under this chapter unless the
applicant has first paid all parking
infraction judgments and default
judgments and all notices of liability under Section 413.031 for red
light or speeding violations, provided that the notices of liability under
Section 413.031 are not on appeal,
that are owed by applicant.

12
Section 459.01 Definitions
The following words and phrases,
when used in this Chapter of the
Traffic Code, shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them
by this section.
(a) “Parking Infraction” means a
violation of the following sections
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
203.08 Parking Waste Collection
Vehicles;
343.20 Service Station Parking Restrictions;
405.023 Continuous Violation Tickets;
451.03 Statutory Prohibited Standing or Parking Places;
451.04 Manner of Parallel Parking;
451.041
Physically
Handicapped
Parking division (h) only;
451.05 Manner of Angle Parking;
451.08 Narrow Roadways and Alleys;
451.09 Hydrant Side of Street;
451.10 Hazardous Traffic Obstructions;
451.11 Hospital Grounds;
451.12 City Property;
451.13 Distance from Theaters;
451.15 Fire Lanes on Public and
Private Property;
451.16 Street Cleaning;
451.17 Snow Emergency;
451.18 Bus Stops and Taxi Cab
Stands;
451.19 Motor Carriers;
451.20 Truck Zones;
451.21 Trucks and Commercial
Vehicles;
451.22 Between Sidewalk and Setback Line;
451.23 Tree Lawn and Private Driveway;
451.24 Private Driveway or Private Property;
451.25 Abandoned Vehicles;
451.28 Reserved Street Parking for
U.S. Marshal;
451.33 Valet Parking/Passenger
Drop off-Pick up Zones Established;
Violations, divisions (e) and (f)
only;
453.01 Parking Regulations in Parking Meter Zones;
453.02 Parking Violations;
455.05 Parking Regulations;
455.061 Reserved Parking Spaces
at Willard Park Garage;
455.07 Violations, divisions (a),
(b), (c) and (d) only;
461.15 Prohibitions, division (a)
only; and
571.37 Parking Areas;
of the Codified Ordinances.
(b) “Vehicles” has the same meaning as in Section 4511.01 of the
Revised Code.
(c) “Violations Clerk” means the
Clerk of the Cleveland Municipal
Court.
(d) “Parking Violations Bureau”
means the bureau established by the
Council of the City of Cleveland pursuant to Section 4521.04 of the
Revised Code and Section 459.03
hereof.
(e) “Law Enforcement Officer”
has the same meaning as in division
(k) of Section 601.01 of these codified ordinances and shall also mean
employees of the City whose duties
include the issuance of parking
infraction tickets while engaged in
such duty.
(f) “Notification of Infraction”
means the notice mailed to the

The City Record
owner or operator of a vehicle
involved in a parking infraction pursuant to Section 4521.07 of the
Revised Code and Section 459.06
hereof.
(g) “Rush Hour Parking Infraction” means a violation of division
(n) of Section 451.03 of these codified ordinances, occurring on the
streets and roadways and during
the times specified in Rule Nos. 3,
3-A, 3-B, 4, and 4-A adopted by the
Director of Public Safety, as the
same may be amended from time to
time.
(h) “Court” or “Municipal Court”
means
the
Cleveland
Municipal
Court, unless specifically identified
as another court, in which case it
means the specifically identified
court.
Section 459.03 Parking Violations
Bureau
(a) The City of Cleveland Parking Violations Bureau is hereby
established pursuant to RC 4521.04.
The
Parking
Violations
Bureau
shall be within the office of the
Clerk of the Cleveland Municipal
Court.
The
Parking
Violations
Bureau has jurisdiction over each
parking infraction that occurs within the territory of the City of Cleveland. Notwithstanding any other
provision of law to the contrary,
each parking infraction that occurs
within the jurisdiction of the Parking
Violations
Bureau
and
the
enforcement of each such parking
infraction shall be handled pursuant
to and be governed by the provisions of this Chapter.
(b) The operating costs of the
Parking Violations Bureau shall be
paid by the City of Cleveland. The
Clerk of the Cleveland Municipal
Court is hereby appointed as the
Violations Clerk of the Parking Violations Bureau, with authority to
appoint
deputy
clerks,
hearing
examiners and necessary clerical
employees.
No
person
shall
be
employed as a hearing examiner
unless the person is an attorney
admitted to the practice of law in
this state or formerly was employed
as a law enforcement officer.
(c) The fine, penalties, fees, and
costs established for a parking
infraction shall be collected, retained and disbursed by the Violations Clerk if the parking infraction out of which the fine, penalties, fees and costs arose occurred
within the jurisdiction of the Parking Violations Bureau. The Violations Clerk shall provide tickets
for parking infractions to law
enforcement officers in the Division of Police upon requisition of
the Chief of Police and shall also
provide tickets for parking infractions upon requisition of the director or commissioner of any other
department or division which has
employees whose duties include the
issuance of parking infraction tickets. Any person requisitioning tickets shall account to the Violations
Clerk for all tickets requisitioned
at such times as the Violations
Clerk
shall
request.
The
fine,
penalties, fees, and costs collected
by the Violations Clerk for a parking infraction shall be disbursed by

664

April 12, 2006
the Violations Clerk to the City of
Cleveland.
(d) The Clerk of Court shall have
authority to contract with any nongovernmental entity to provide services in processing, collecting, and
enforcing parking tickets issued by
law enforcement officers and civil
judgments and default civil judgments entered pursuant to this
Chapter. No contract shall affect the
responsibilities of hearing examiners as prescribed in this Chapter, or
the ultimate responsibility of the
Violations Clerk to collect, retain,
and disburse fines, penalties, fees,
and costs for parking infractions
and monies paid in satisfaction of
judgments and default judgments
entered pursuant to this Chapter. All
contracts entered into by the Clerk
of Court shall be subject to approval
of City Council.
(e) The Director of Law and the
Director of Finance are each authorized to enter into contract on
behalf of the Clerk of the Cleveland
Municipal Court for the collection of
unpaid
parking
infraction
judgments and default judgments. In
addition
to
any
other
fees
or
charges authorized by these codified
ordinances in relation to the commission of a parking infraction, the
judgment debtor on unpaid parking
infraction
judgments
or
default
judgments may be assessed an
amount equal to the costs paid by
the City to any vendor for the costs
of collection of the debt.
Section 459.05 Answers; Procedures
(a) A person who is personally
or constructively served with a
parking ticket charging the commission of a parking infraction
may answer the charge by appearing personally before the Parking
Violations Bureau or by mail. An
answer shall be made within fifteen days from the date of the
infraction, and shall be in one of
the following forms:
(1) An admission that the person
committed the parking infraction,
by payment of any fine arising out
of the parking infraction;
(2) An admission that the person
committed the parking infraction,
with an explanation of the circumstances surrounding the parking
infraction;
(3) A denial that the person committed the parking infraction and a
request for a hearing relative to the
infraction. If the person desires the
presence, at the hearing, of the law
enforcement officer who issued the
parking ticket, the person must
request his presence in his answer.
(b) (1) A person who admits that
he committed a parking infraction
shall, and a person who admits that
he committed a parking infraction
with explanation may, when he
makes his answer, pay the fine arising out of the infraction admitted to
the Violations Clerk of the Parking
Violations Bureau.
(2) A person who admits that he
committed a parking infraction with
explanation shall submit evidence to
the Parking Violations Bureau that
explains
the
circumstances
surrounding the parking infraction.
The evidence may be submitted in

April 12, 2006
person or, to avoid the necessity of
personal appearance, may be sent as
affidavits and other documentary
evidence, by mail. The Parking Violations Bureau, when it receives an
answer admitting that a person committed a parking infraction with
explanation, shall promptly determine whether the explanation mitigates the fact that the person committed the parking infraction and
notify the person, in writing, of its
determination.
If the Parking Violations Bureau
determines that the explanation mitigates the fact that the person committed the parking infraction, the
Parking
Violations
Bureau
shall
eliminate or reduce the amount of
the fine arising out of the parking
infraction. If the fine is eliminated
or reduced and the person has previously paid the fine, the amount
paid in excess of the revised fine
shall be returned to the person; if the
fine is eliminated or reduced and the
person has not previously paid the
fine, the person shall pay only the
amount of the revised fine. If the
Parking Violations Bureau determines that the explanation does not
mitigate the fact that the person
committed the parking infraction,
the person owes the entire amount of
the fine arising out of the parking
infraction, and if the person has not
previously paid the fine, the person
shall pay the entire amount of the
fine. If a person admits that he committed a parking infraction with
explanation and the person fails to
pay the amount of the fine due within ten days after receiving notice of
the Parking Violations Bureau’s determination, unless the amount due
has previously been paid, the Parking Violations Bureau’s determination and the amount of the fine due
shall be considered a judgment and
shall be treated as if it were a judgment rendered subsequent to a hearing held pursuant to Division (b) of
Section 459.07 hereof.
(3) A person who denies that he
committed
a
parking
infraction
shall be granted a hearing concerning the infraction. The Parking Violations Bureau shall set a date for
the hearing and notify the person,
in writing, of the date, time, and
place of the hearing. The hearing
shall be conducted by a hearing
examiner of the Parking Violations
Bureau in accordance with Section
459.07 hereof.
(c) If a person who is personally
or constructively served with a
parking ticket charging the commission of a parking infraction fails
to timely answer the charge, as provided in Division (a) of this Section,
the Parking Violations Bureau shall
issue the proper notifications of
infraction pursuant to Section 459.06
hereof, and proceed according to
that Section. Failure to answer the
charge within the fifteen day period provided by Division (a) of this
Section, shall result in the imposition of an additional penalty of ten
dollars ($10.00).
(d) The issuance of a parking
ticket, the filing of or failure to file
an answer by a person personally or
constructively served with the ticket, the substance of an answer, the

The City Record
payment of any fine, penalty, fee,
and cost, and any other relevant
information shall be entered in the
records of the Parking Violations
Bureau.
Section 459.06 Failure to Answer
(a) When a person is personally
or constructively served with a
parking ticket charging the commission of a parking infraction in
accordance with Section 459.04 hereof and the person fails to answer
the charge within the time specified
in Section 459.05 hereof, the Parking
Violations Bureau shall send notifications of infractions as follows:
(1) If the person who fails to
answer was the operator of the
vehicle involved in the parking
infraction at the time of the commission of the parking infraction
and was personally served with the
parking ticket, a notification of
infraction shall be sent to that person, and additionally if such person is not the owner of the vehicle, as determined from the records
of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles, a
notification of infraction also shall
be sent to the owner at his most
recent address appearing in such
records;
(2) If the person who fails to
answer was the owner of the vehicle and was constructively served
with the parking ticket, a notification of infraction shall be sent to
the
owner
at
his
most
recent
address appearing in the records of
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
(b) A notification of infraction
shall be sent within twelve (12)
months after the expiration of the
time specified in Section 459.05 hereof for the making of an answer,
shall be sent by first class mail, and
shall contain all of the following:
(1) An identification of the parking infraction with which the person was charged and the time and
date
of
the
parking
infraction,
which identification may be a copy
of the parking ticket charging the
parking infraction that was personally or constructively served upon
the person;
(2)
An
identification
of
the
amount of the fine, penalties, fees,
and costs arising out of the parking
infraction that are due;
(3) A warning that the person
must answer the parking infraction
charged in the ticket within thirty
(30) days or a default civil judgment in the amount of the fine,
penalties, fees, and costs due may
be entered against the person;
(4) A description of the allowable
answers that may be made and notification that the person will be
afforded a hearing before the Parking Violations Bureau if he denies
in his answer that he committed the
parking infraction;
(5) An identification of the manners in which and the entity to
which an answer may be made;
(6) A warning that if the person
fails to appear at a requested hearing, a default civil judgment in the
amount of the fine, penalties, fees,
and costs due may be entered
against the person.
(7) A warning that renewal or
transfer of the registration of the

665

13
vehicle involved in the parking
infraction, if the vehicle is registered in this state, may be denied as
provided in RC 4521.10 for nonpayment of judgments or default judgments entered pursuant to this chapter.
(c) A person who receives a notification of infraction pursuant to
this section may answer the parking infraction with which he is
charged that is identified in the
notification of infraction in any of
the manners provided in division (a)
of Section 459.05 hereof for answers
to parking infractions charged in a
parking ticket. An answer under
this section shall be made within
thirty (30) days after the date on
which the notification of infraction
was mailed, and shall be in one of
the forms specified in divisions (a)
(1), (2), and (3) of Section 459.05
hereof
for
answers
to
parking
infractions charged in a parking
ticket, except that if the answer
includes payment of the fine arising
out of the parking infraction any
penalty, fee, or cost arising out of
such infraction also shall be paid.
The answer shall be governed by
the provisions of division (b) of Section 459.05 hereof for answers relative to parking infractions charged
in a parking ticket, except that any
determination of the amount to be
paid under an answer admitting the
commission of the parking infraction with explanation also shall consider any penalty, fee, or cost arising out of such infraction.
(d) If a person who is issued a
notification of infraction pursuant
to RC 4521.07, and division (c) of
this section, fails to timely answer,
the failure to answer shall be considered an admission that the person committed the parking infraction, and a default civil judgment,
in the amount of the fine, penalties,
fees, and costs due may be entered
against
the
person.
Failure
to
answer the parking infraction within thirty (30) days after the date on
which the notification of infraction
was mailed shall result in the imposition of an additional penalty of fifteen dollars ($15.00).
(e) The sending of a notification
of infraction, the filing of or failure
to file an answer by the person to
whom it is sent, the substance of an
answer, the payment of any fine,
and any other relevant information
shall be entered in the records of
the Parking Violations Bureau.
Section 459.08
Release of Impounded Vehicles
(a) Any vehicle which has been
impounded pursuant to divisions
(j) or (l) of Section 405.02 of these
codified
ordinances
shall
be
released to the owner or other person lawfully entitled to possession
upon the occurrence of one of the
following:
(1) If an answer to the summons
and complaint is made and the
answer admits the commission of
the infraction, payment of the fines
and penalties prescribed by Sections
459.11, 459.05, and 459.06 hereof, towing, storage, and impound fees, and
administrative fees and costs shall

The City Record

14
be made with respect to the infraction for which the vehicle was
impounded.
(2) If an answer to the summons
and complaint is made and the
answer admits with explanation the
commission of the infraction, payment shall be made or a bond shall
be posted or cash shall be deposited equal in amount to the payment
specified in division (a)(1) of this
section.
(3) If an answer to the summons
and complaint is made and the
answer denies the commission of
the infraction, a bond shall be
posted or cash shall be deposited
equal in amount to the payment
specified in division (a)(1) of this
section.
(4) If no answer to the summons
and complaint is made a bond shall
be posted or cash shall be deposited equal in amount to the payment
specified in division (a)(1) of this
section, plus all potential additional
penalties under Sections 459.05 and
459.06.
(b) No vehicle shall be released
pursuant to this section unless the
person claiming ownership or lawful possession pays:
(1) All unpaid parking infraction
judgments and default judgments
and all unpaid notices of liability
under Section 413.031 for red light or
speeding violations, provided that
the notices of liability under Section
413.031 are not on appeal, that are
owed by the person claiming the
vehicle; and
(2)
All
unpaid
judgments
or
default
judgments
for
parking
infraction offenses and all unpaid
notices of liability under Section
413.031 for red light or speeding violations, provided that the notices of
liability under Section 413.031 are
not on appeal, that were committed
with any vehicle that had the same
license plate number as the vehicle
being claimed.

April 12, 2006

(c) No vehicle shall be released
pursuant to this section unless the
person claiming ownership or lawful possession produces proof of
identity and ownership
(d) Any bond posted or cash
deposited for the release of a vehicle under this section shall not
exceed
one
thousand
dollars
($1,000.00).
Section 459.11 Parking Infraction
Fines
(a) The fine for committing a
parking infraction, unless another
fine is established by divisions (b)
or (c) of this section, is hereby
established to be twenty dollars
($20.00), except that the fine for a
rush hour parking infraction shall
be thirty dollars ($30.00).
(b) The fine for violating each of
the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, whether or not committed during rush hour, is hereby established
to be fifty dollars ($50.00):
451.03 Statutory Prohibited Standing or Parking Places, division (e)
only;
451.22 Between Sidewalk and Setback Line;
451.23 Tree Lawn and Private Driveway, division (a) only;
451.241
Parking
Vehicles
on
Vacant Lots Prohibited, division (b)
only;
451.25 Abandoned Vehicles; and
451.17 Snow Emergency.
(c) The fine for violating each of
the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, whether or not committed during rush hour, is hereby established to be one hundred dollars
($100.00):
451.21 Trucks and Commercial
Vehicles, division (b) only;
451.041
Physically
Handicapped
Parking, division (h) only.
(d) The fine for violating the following section of the Codified Ordi-

nances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
whether or not committed during
rush hour, is hereby established to
be two hundred and fifty dollars
($250.00):
451.041
Physically
Handicapped
Parking, division (h) only.
Section 3. That the following
existing Sections of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 405.02, as amended by
Ordinance
No.
1593-2000,
passed
December 18, 2000;
Section 443.19, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1684-76, passed June 29,
1976;
Section 459.01, as amended by Ordinance No. 1491-01, passed August 3,
2005;
Section 459.03, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1882-86, passed July
17, 1986;
Section 459.05, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1995-84, passed September 5, 1984;
Section 459.06, as amended by
Ordinance No. 446-90, passed June 4,
1990;
Section 459.08, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1745-85, passed June
24, 1985; and
Section 459.11, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1491-01, passed August
3, 2005,
are repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Parks, Recreation and Properties, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Public Parks, Property
and
Recreation,
Legislation,
Finance.

Ord. No. 646-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to pay as Moral Claims the sum opposite the name
of the claimant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Finance is authorized to pay as Moral Claims the sum opposite the name of the
following claimant and charged against the fund number opposite the name of the claimant:
Claimant:

Claim No.

Amount

Division

Fund

$ 3,700.00

Police

01-600202-672000

Public Safety Department – Police
Gonzalez, Petra

11818

Section 2. That the authority of the Director of Finance to pay the amounts in this ordinance is conditioned
on a City-approved written acceptance by the claimant of the City’s offer to pay this claim within six months
from the effective date of this ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.

666

April 12, 2006
Ord. No. 647-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of scanning
services, for the Division of Taxation, Department of Finance, for a
period of one year with four one
year options to renew.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements of
the
necessary
items
of
scanning/imaging
services,
imaging
software, associated licenses, installation, training and maintenance for
a period of one year with four one
year options to renew, in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding term, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis for the
Division of Taxation, Department of
Finance. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 127080)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 648-06.
By Council Members Britt, Brady,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service
to issue a permit to The Cleveland
Clinic Foundation to encroach into
the public right-of-way of East 96th
Street by installing, using, and
maintaining a sloped walk exit
ramp, sheet piling, a building corner, and below-grade areaways.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, to The Cleveland Clinic
Foundation,
9500
Euclid
Avenue
Cleveland Ohio 44195 (“Permittee”),
to encroach into the public right-ofway beneath and above East 96th
Street by installing, using, and
maintaining a sloped walk exit
ramp, sheet piling, a new building
corner, and below-grade areaways,
at the following locations:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF A PROPOSED
SLOPED WALK EXIT RAMP
ENCROACHMENT
WITHIN EAST 96TH STREET
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being an area
within East 96th Street, (66 feet
wide) bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the westerly line of
East 96th Street at its intersection
with the easterly prolongation of
the northerly line of Cleveland
Clinic Building FG; said point being
distant South 01°-51'-26" West, 564.81
feet (as measured along said westerly line) from its intersection with
the Southerly line of Euclid Avenue
(80 feet wide). Thence South 01°-51'26" West continuing along said
westerly line, 46.03 feet to the principal place of beginning of the area
of encroachment herein intended to
be described:
Course No. 1: Thence South 89°59'-52" East, 1.56 feet to a point;
Course No. 2: Thence South 00°00'-08" West, 29.00 feet to a point;
Course No. 3: Thence North 89°-59'52" West, 2.50 feet to a point in the
aforesaid westerly line of East 96th
Street;
Course No. 4: Thence North 01°-51'26" East, along said westerly line,
29.02 feet to the principal place of
beginning,
containing
59
square
feet, (0.0014 Acres) of land, according to a survey by Garrett and Associates, Inc., Registered Engineers &
Surveyors and proposed building
plans, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
L06-06
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF A PROPOSED
NEW BUILDING ENCROACHMENT
WITHIN EAST 96TH STREET
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being an area
within East 96th Street, (66 feet
wide) bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the westerly line of
East 96th Street at its intersection
with the easterly prolongation of
the northerly line of Cleveland Clinic Building FG; said point being distant South 01°-51'-26" West, 564.81
feet (as measured along said westerly line) from its intersection with

667

15
the Southerly line of Euclid Avenue
(80 feet wide).
Course No. 1: Thence North 01°-51'26" East, along said westerly line,
61.74 feet to its intersection with the
proposed easterly face of the proposed new Glickman Tower;
Course No. 2: Thence South 00°01'-48" East, along said proposed
easterly face, 57.95 feet to an inner
corner therein;
Course No. 3: Thence South 56°20'-24" East, continuing along a proposed face of said new building, 3.17
feet to a corner thereof;
Course No. 4: Thence South 00°01'-48" East, 2.00 feet to a proposed
southeasterly corner thereof;
Course No. 5: Thence South 89°58'-12" West, along the proposed
southerly face thereof, 4.67 feet to
the place of beginning, containing
70 square feet, (0.0016 Acres) of
land, according to a survey by Garrett and Associates, Inc., Registered
Engineers & Surveyors and proposed
building plans, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
L06-06.A
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF A
PROPOSED ENCROACHMENT
FOR BELOW-GRADE AREAWAYS
WITHIN EAST 96TH STREET
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being an area
within East 96th Street, (66 feet
wide) bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the westerly line of
East 96th Street at its intersection
with the easterly prolongation of
the northerly line of Cleveland Clinic Building FG; said point being
distant
South
01°-51'-26"
West,
564.81 feet (measured along said
westerly line) from its intersection
with the Southerly line of Euclid
Avenue (80 feet wide). Thence
North 01°-51'-26" East along said
westerly line, 66.37 feet to the principal place of beginning of the area
of encroachment herein intend to be
described:
Course No. 1: Thence North 01°-51'26" East, continuing along said
westerly line, 25.01 feet to a point;
Course No. 2: Thence North 89°-58'12" East, 10.34 feet to a point;
Course No. 3: Thence South 00°01'-48" East, 12.00 feet to a point;
Course No. 4: Thence South 89°58'-12" West, 4.16 feet to a point;
Course No. 5: Thence South 00°01'-48" East, 13.00 feet to a point’
Course No. 6: Thence South 89°58'-12" West, 7.00 feet to the principal place of beginning, containing
215 square feet, (0.0049 Acres) of
land, according to a survey by Garrett and Associates, Inc., Registered
Engineers & Surveyors and proposed
building plans, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
L06-06.B
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF A
PROPOSED ENCROACHMENT
FOR A BELOW-GRADE AREAWAY
WITHIN EAST 96TH STREET
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of

16
Ohio, and known as being an area
within East 96th Street, (66 feet
wide) bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the westerly line of
East 96th Street at its intersection
with the easterly prolongation of
the northerly line of Cleveland
Clinic
Building
FG;
said
point
being
distant
South
01°-51'-26"
West, 564.81 feet (measured along
said westerly line) from its intersection with the Southerly line of
Euclid
Avenue
(80
feet
wide).
Thence North 01°-51'-26" East along
said westerly line, 106.89 feet to the
principal place of beginning of the
area of encroachment herein intended to be described:
Course No. 1: Thence North 01°-51'26" East continuing along said westerly line, 17.51 feet to a point;
Course No. 2: Thence North 89°-58'12" East, 5.42 feet to a point;
Course No. 3: Thence South 00°01'-48" East, 17.50 feet to a point;
Course No. 4: Thence South 89°58'-12" West, 6.00 feet to the principal place of beginning, containing
100 square feet (0.0023 Acres) of
land, according to a survey by Garrett and Associates, Inc., Registered
Engineers & Surveyors and proposed
building plans, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
L06-06.C
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF A PROPOSED ENCROACHMENT
FOR SHEET PILING WITHIN
EAST 96TH STREET
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being an area
within East 96th Street, (66 feet
wide) bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the westerly line of
East 96th Street at its intersection
with the easterly prolongation of
the northerly line of Cleveland
Clinic Building FG; said point being
distant South 01°-51'-26" West, 564.81
feet (measured along said westerly
line) from its intersection with the
Southerly line of Euclid Avenue (80
feet wide) to the principal place of
beginning of the area of encroachment
herein
intended
to
be
described:
Course No. 1: Thence North 01°-51'26" East along said westerly line,
129.07 feet to a point;
Course No. 2: Thence North 89°-58'12" East, 14.10 feet to a point;
Course No. 3: Thence South 00°01'-48" East, 68.00 feet to a point;
Course No. 4: Thence South 89°58'-12" West, 8.31 feet to a point;
Course No. 5: Thence South 00°01'-48" East, 66.00 feet to a point;
Course No. 6: Thence North 89°58'-12" West, 10.20 feet to the aforesaid westerly line of East 96th
Street;
Course No. 7: Thence North 01°51'-26" East, along said westerly
line, 5.00 feet to the principal place
of
beginning,
containing
1636
square feet (0.0376 Acres) of land,
according to a survey by Garrett
and Associates, Inc., Registered
Engineers and Surveyors and proposed building plans, be the same

The City Record
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
L06-06.D
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of Public Service. That the encroaching structures permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans
and specifications approved by the
Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall
incorporate such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest. The permit shall be
issued only when, in the opinion of
the Director of Law, Permittee has
properly
indemnified
the
City
against any loss that may result
from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 649-06.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
medical supplies and equipment, for
the Division of Emergency Medical
Service, Department of Public Safety for the period of one year, with
one option to renew for an additional one year term.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one year, with one
option to renew for an additional
one year term, of the necessary
items of various medical supplies
and equipment, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Sup-

668

April 12, 2006
plies on a unit basis for the Division of Emergency Medical Service,
Department of Public Safety. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 163534)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 650-06.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Pubic Safety to
enter into one or more contracts
without competitive bidding with
Zoll Data Systems for the purchase
of maintenance, including upgrades
of RescueNet EMS Pro necessary to
produce patient care run reports and
for billing, for the Division of Emergency Medical Service, Department
of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council determines that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Zoll Data Systems. Therefore the
Director of Public Safety is authorized to make one or more written
contracts with Zoll Data Systems on
the basis of its proposal dated January 26, 2006, for maintenance,
including upgrades of RescueNet
EMS
Pro
necessary
to
produce
patient care run reports and for
billing, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, for the Division of Emergency
Medical Service, Department of Public Safety.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 01-600402661600, Request No. 163537.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force

April 12, 2006
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 651-06.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety
to enter into one or more contracts
without competitive bidding with
Stryker Medical for maintenance on
patient cots and stair chairs on rescue squads, for the Division of
Emergency Medical Service, Department of Public Safety, for a period
of one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
determines that the within commodities are non-competitive and
cannot be secured from any source
other than Stryker Medical. Therefore the Director of Public Safety
is authorized to make one or more
written contracts with Stryker Medical on the basis of its proposal
dated January 10, 2006, for maintenance on not to exceed 37 patient
cots and not to exceed 21 stair
chairs on rescue squads to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, for the Division of Emergency Medical Service,
Department of Public Safety, for a
period of one year.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 01-600402661200, Request No. 163512.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 652-06.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as
part of the Land Reutilization Program and located on Lexington
Avenue to Thomas Albert Ruffin
and Pauline Ruffin.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of

The City Record
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 106-14-001
and
106-14-100,
as
more
fully
described below, to Thomas Albert
Ruffin and Pauline Ruffin.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-14-001
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 36, 38 and 40 in Samuel
B. Strang’s Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
341, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 46 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
together forming a parcel of land
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 65th Street (formerly Norwood
Street), at its point of intersection
with the Southerly line of Lexington
Avenue,
N.E.;
thence
Southerly
along said Easterly line of East 65th
Street, 69 feet to its point of intersection with the Southerly line of
said Sublot No. 40; thence Easterly
along the Southerly line of Sublot
No. 40, 52.5 feet; thence Northerly on
a line parallel with said Easterly
line of East 65th Street, about 69
feet to the Southerly line of Lexington Avenue, N.E.; thence Westerly along said Southerly line of Lexington Avenue, N.E., about 52.5 feet
to the place of beginning, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
P. P. No. 106-14-100
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 36, 38 and 40, in Samuel
B. Strang’s Subdivision of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 341, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 46 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and together forming a parcel of land bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the Southerly line of Lexington
Avenue, N.E. with the Westerly line
of East 66th Place; thence Southerly, along said Westerly line of East
66th Place, about 69 feet to the
Southeasterly corner of said Sublot
No. 40; thence Westerly, along the
Southerly line of said Sublot No. 40,
about 80-17/100 feet to a point in the
Southerly line, 52-5/10 feet Easterly,
from the Easterly line of East 65th

669

17
Street (formerly Norwood Street);
thence Northerly, parallel with said
Easterly line of East 65th Street,
about 69 feet to said Southerly line
of Lexington Avenue, N.E.; thence
Easterly, about 80-15/100 feet to the
place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 653-06.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of City Planning
to enter into one or more contracts
with Cleveland Public Art for professional
services
necessary
to
administer the City’s public art program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
City Planning is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with Cleveland Public Art for professional
services
necessary
to

The City Record

18
administer the City’s Public Art
Program for calendar year 2006, in
the total sum of $45,000, for the
Department of City Planning. The
contracts or contracts shall be paid
from
Fund
No.
01-011001-638000,
Request No. 112380.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees
on
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 655-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the City to pay a portion of
the costs of various utility and
infrastructure improvements within
the Flats East Bank Community
Plan area, as described in Ordinance
No. 1644-05.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, provided the City
enters into a Development Agreement with the Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County Port Authority (“Port Authority”) and Flats East Development LLC, the Directors of Public
Service and Public Utilities are
authorized to enter into one or
more agreements with the Port
Authority for the making of the
utility and infrastructure improvements described in the Development
Agreement
by
the
Port
Authority within the Flats East
Bank Community Plan area, as

described in Ordinance No. 1644-05,
passed October 17, 2005. The agreements authorized in this section
shall require that the Port Authority let the contracts for the improvements under the Port Authority’s standard competitive processes, that contributions from each
City department shall be used only
for the specific purposes of each
department as defined in the Development Agreement, and that appropriate reporting and scheduling
requirements shall be in place to
ensure that the City’s contributions
are used only for the authorized
purposes and made only when
needed for such purposes.
Section 2. That, provided the City
enters into a Development Agreement with the Port Authority and
Flats East Development LLC, this
Council authorizes the contribution
by the City of labor, materials or
funds for the utility and infrastructure improvements described in section 1 above in the estimated
amounts of $740,000 from the Division of Water (Fund No. 52 SF 001),
$3,400,000 from the Division of Cleveland Public Power (Fund No. 58 SF
001), and $1,000,000 from the Department of Public Service (Fund Nos.
20 SF 363, 20 SF 372, 20 SF 379, 20
SF 393, and 20 SF 505), Request No.
146268.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Public Utilities, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees
on
Public
Service,
Public
Utilities,
City
Planning,
Finance.

April 12, 2006
Ord. No. 656-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the City to pay costs of public improvements within the Flats
East Bank Community Plan area, as
described in Ordinance No. 1644-05,
passed October 17, 2005.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, provided the City
enters into a Development Agreement with the Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County
Port
Authority
(“Port
Authority”) and Flats East Development LLC, this Council authorizes
the Director of Finance to pay the
debt service on not to exceed
$11,000,000 of obligations issued by
the Port Authority for the purpose
of
constructing
various
public
improvements within the Flats East
Bank Community Plan area, as
described in Ordinance No. 1644-05,
passed October 17, 2005, including
the authority to execute a cooperation agreement and all other documents necessary to pay the debt service, provided the City does not
issue City bonds for this purpose.
The payment of debt service on
those obligations will be subject to
annual appropriation from one or
more of the following funds: Fund
Nos. 01 SF 001, 11 SF 006, and 54 SF
001.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

FIRST READING ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 657-06.
By Council Member Santiago.
An ordinance to change the Use Districts of lands bounded by Seymour Avenue and Erin Avenue west of Fulton Road from a Two-Family Residential District to a Local Retail Business District as shown on the attached
map. (Map Change No. 2177, Page 1).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Fulton Road and its intersection with the centerline of Seymour Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Seymour Avenue approximately 88 feet to its intersection with the
northerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot No. 445 in the H. Stone Addition Subdivision as shown on
the recorded plat in Volume 1 of Maps; Page 42 of Cuyahoga County Records; said intersection being known as
the principal place of beginning;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation, easterly line and southerly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of Erin Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the westerly line
of Sublot No. 447 in said H. Stone Addition Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said prolongation and westerly line to its intersection with a line drawn 60 feet from
and parallel to the northerly line of Erin Avenue;
Thence easterly along said parallel line to its intersection with the easterly line of said Sublot No. 447;
Thence northerly along said easterly line and its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Seymour Avenue;

670

April 12, 2006

The City Record

19

Thence easterly along said centerline to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the easterly line of
Sublot No. 445 in said H. Stone Addition Subdivision; said point also being known as the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2177, Sheet No. 1 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 654-06.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 5. (Cyndi Lightner).
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council
expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to peddling upon public

rights of way outside of the Central
Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

671

Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by, Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances to allow
each persons named below to engage
in peddling in the public rights of
way of Ward 5: Cyndi Lightner at
southwest corner of Woodland Avenue and East 55th Street.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted may be revoked at any time
by this Council.

20
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 662-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Hermes 10 Miler, on
April 22, 2006, sponsored by Hermes
Sports.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Hermes 10 Miler,
sponsored by Hermes Sports on
April 22, 2006, starting at Prospect
by East 4th, take Prospect to East
36th, right on East 36th, right on
Carnegie, Carnegie over the bridge
to Fulton, right on Fulton, right
onto
Detroit/Superior,
left
onto
West 9th, right onto Lakeside, left
onto West 3rd, around the Browns
Stadium, left onto Erieside, over
East 9th to N. Marginal, turnaround
at Gate 11 and back on N. Marginal, left onto East 9th, right onto
Lakeside, left onto West 6th, left
onto
W.
Prospect,
finish
on
Prospect by East 4th, walk down
East 4th for the post race food, provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to
the extent and in form satisfactory
to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 663-06.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Mt. Olive Missionary Baptist Church
to stretch banners on the northwest
corner of East 134th & Kinsman and
the north side of Union of Murtis
Taylor’s driveway to an adjacent
pole to the south side of Union, for
the period from April 10, 2006 to May
9, 2006, inclusive, publicizing the
church’s 6th Annual Juneteenth Celebration.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the Department of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue
a permit to Mt. Haven Missionary
Baptist Church to install, maintain
and remove banners on the northwest corner of East 134th & Kinsman and the north side of Union of
Murtis Taylor’s driveway to an adjacent pole to the south side of Union,
for the period from April 10, 2006 to
May 9, 2006, inclusive. Said banner
shall be approved by the Director of
Public Service, in consultation with
the Director of Public Safety, as to
type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any
sign erected and maintained under
the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner
of any pole from which a banner
will be hung must be obtained prior
to issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed
or permitted on said banner and
said
banner
shall
be
removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 658-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at 1740 East 17th Street, 1st
floor and basement and repealing
Resolution No. 333-06, objecting to
said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to Tyler Brit-

672

April 12, 2006
ton Zinn, DBA Moe’s Bar & Grill,
1740 East 17th Street, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44114,
Permanent No. 9949500, by Resolution No. 333-06 adopted by the Council on February 27, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to Tyler Britton Zinn, DBA Moe’s Bar & Grill,
1740 East 17th Street, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44114,
Permanent Number 9949500, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 333-06, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 659-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of D2, D2X, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit at 2927 Bridge
Avenue and repealing Resolution
No. 171-06, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D2,
D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to D & A Restaurants, Inc., DBA
Heck’s Café, 2927 Bridge Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
No. 1883538, by Resolution No. 171-06
adopted by the Council on January
30, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D2,
D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to D & A Restaurants, Inc., DBA
Heck’s Café, 2927 Bridge Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 1883538, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 171-06, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.

April 12, 2006
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 660-06.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at 2132 West 25th Street and
repealing Resolution No. 1558-05,
objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 Liquor Permit to 2132 West
25th Street by Resolution No. 1558-05
adopted by the Council on August 3,
2005; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
Liquor Permit to Chatham Entertainment LLC, DBA Lost City Bistro
Bar, 2132 West 25th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number
1385000 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 155805, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 661-06.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal
of a C1 Liquor Permit at 3347
Meyer Avenue, 1st floor front and
basement and repealing Resolution
No. 1555-05, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 Liquor Permit to 3347 Meyer
Avenue, 1st floor front and basement by Resolution No. 1555-05

The City Record
adopted by the Council on August 3,
2005; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
Liquor Permit to Betty’s Food Market, Inc., 3347 Meyer Avenue, 1st
floor front and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44109,
Permanent
Number
0674119 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 155505, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 2368-04.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to extend
the retirement dates of various
police and fire personnel, for a one
year period for the Divisions of
Police and Fire, Department of Public Safety.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Public Safety; Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance; when amended as follows:
1. Insert new Section 1a to read as
follows:
“Section 1a. That Officer Emil
Cielec of the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, shall
continue on active duty for a one
(1) year period beginning on August
20, 2006, and that this continuation
is approved by this Council.”.
2. Insert new Section 2a to read as
follows:
“Section 2a. That Officer Thomas
Smith of the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, shall
continue on active duty for a one
(1) year period beginning on August
14, 2006, and that this continuation
is approved by this Council.”.
3. Insert new Section 4a to read as
follows:
“Section 4a. That Lieutenant Edward Lentz of the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, shall
continue on active duty for a one
(1) year period beginning on August

673

21
14, 2006, and that this continuation
is approved by this Council.”.
4. Insert new Section 5a to read as
follows:
“Section 5a. That Sergeant Ollie
Davis of the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, shall
continue on active duty for a one
(1) year period beginning on August
21, 2006, and that this continuation
is approved by this Council.”.
5. Insert new Section 6a to read as
follows:
“Section 6a. That Officer Earl
Brown of the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, shall
continue on active duty for a one
(1) year period beginning on January 29, 2006, and that this continuation is approved by this Council.”.
6. Insert new Section 7a to read as
follows:
“Section 7a. That Officer Clark
Kellogg of the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, shall
continue on active duty for a one
(1) year period beginning on September 10, 2006, and that this continuation is approved by this Council.”.
7. Insert new Section 8a to read as
follows:
“Section 8a. That Officer Bernard
Ferris of the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, shall
continue on active duty for a one
(1) year period beginning on May
28, 2006, and that this continuation
is approved by this Council.”.
8. Insert new Section 9a to read as
follows:
“Section 9a. That Officer Timothy
Ryan of the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, shall
continue on active duty for a one
(1) year period beginning on April
15, 2006, and that this continuation
is approved by this Council.”.
9. In Section 10, line 3, strike
“October 5” and insert “October 12”;
and insert new Section 10a to read
as follows:
“Section 10a. That captain David
Good of the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, shall
continue on active duty for a one
(1) year period beginning on October 12, 2006, and that this continuation is approved by this Council.”.
10. Insert new Section 11a to read
as follows:
“Section
11a.
That
Lieutenant
Gary G. Ivins of the Division of
Fire, Department of Public Safety,
shall continue on active duty for a
one (1) year period beginning on
April 1, 2006, and that this continuation is approved by this Council.”.
11. Insert new Section 13a to read
as follows:
“Section 13a. That Captain George
Jenkins of the Division of Fire,
Department of Public Safety, shall
continue on active duty for a one
(1) year period beginning on October 10, 2006, and that this continuation is approved by this Council.”.
12. Insert new Section 14a to read
as follows:
“Section
14a.
That
Lieutenant
Robert Kazimore of the Division of
Fire, Department of Public Safety,
shall continue on active duty for a
one (1) year period beginning on
November 25, 2006, and that this
continuation is approved by this
Council.”.

22
13. Insert new Section 15a to read
as follows:
“Section
15a.
That
Firefighter
Kenneth Gilson of the Division of
Fire, Department of Public Safety,
shall continue on active duty for a
one (1) year period beginning on
December 22, 2006, and that this continuation is approved by this Council.”.
14. Insert new Sections 16, 17, 18,
and 19 to read as follows:
“Section 16. That Sergeant John
Mokri of the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, shall
continue on active duty for a one
(1) year period beginning on April
8, 2006, and that this continuation is
approved by this Council.
Section 17. That Officer Robert
Retzer of the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, shall
continue on active duty for a one
(1) year period beginning on July 7,
2006, and that this continuation is
approved by this Council.
Section 18. That Captain Gerald
Ruckgaber of the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, shall
continue on active duty for a one
(1) year period beginning on July
14, 2006, and that this continuation
is approved by this Council.
Section 19. That Captain John
Campolieti of the Division of Fire,
Department of Public Safety, shall
continue on active duty for a one
(1) year period beginning on August
16, 2006, and that this continuation
is approved by this Council.”.
15. Renumber existing Section 16
to new “Section 20”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 2136-05.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more Concession
Agreements for the operation of onsite terminal advertising at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
for the Department of Port Control,
for a term not to exceed ten years,
with one option to renew for an
additional five year period.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and
Transportation
and
Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In the title, strike lines 7 and
8 in their entirety and insert “exceed
ten years.”.
2. In Section 1, strike lines 9, 10,
and 11 in their entirety and insert
“Control. Each Concession Agreement shall be for a period not to
exceed ten years.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

The City Record
Ord. No. 2137-05.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more Concession
Agreements
for
the
installation,
operation, and maintenance of automatic teller machines at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport and
Burke Lakefront Airport, for the
Department of Port Control, for a
period not to exceed five years.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control and Finance; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation
and
Finance,
Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 5, after
“machines” insert “including automatic teller machines capable of
providing
international
currency
exchange services,”.
2. In Section 1, line 4, after
“(ATMs”) insert “including ATMS
capable of providing international
currency exchange services,”.
3. In Section 1, line 9, after “Airport.” insert “The Concession Agreement shall also provide that two
additional ATMs may be installed at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport and shall be capable of providing
international
currency
exchange services. One of the units
will be located in a post-security
area and the other will be located
in a pre-security area. For the unit
operating in the post-security area,
the vendor shall operate a staffed
unit.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 2138-05.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more Concession
Agreements for the operation of a
self-service baggage cart system at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, for the Department of Port
Control, for a period not to exceed
five years.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 165-06.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 87th Street to
Charles Hardin.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.

674

April 12, 2006
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 166-06.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 87th Street to
Lonnie Harris and Geneva Harris.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 167-06.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 93rd Street to
Walter J. Worsham.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 246-06.
By Council Members Zone, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 531.01 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1661-04,
passed January 24, 2005; and to
repeal Section 531.50 of the codified
ordinances, as amended by Ordinance No. 1661-04, passed January
24, 2005 relating to persons authorized to make water service installation and water main repairs.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Legislation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 291-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of General Obligation Refunding Bonds to
refund outstanding General Obligation Bonds of the City to obtain debt
service savings and authorizing and
approving related matters.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance; when amended
as follows:
1. Insert new Sections 19 and 20
to read as follows:
“Section 19. That the authority
granted by this ordinance for the
issuance and sale of General Obligation Refunding Bonds shall expire
two years from the effective date of
this ordinance. If the issuance of
any given General Obligation Re-

April 12, 2006
funding Bond is initiated by the
Director
of
Finance
under
the
authority of this ordinance at anytime within the two-year period following its effective date, then the
authority granted by this ordinance
shall not expire as to that bond
issuance; but no issuance of General Obligation Refunding Bonds may
be initiated under the authority of
this ordinance later than two years
after its effective date.”
“Section 20. That the Director of
Finance shall notify the Chairman of
the Finance Committee and the Clerk
of this Council of the initiation of the
issuance of any bonds under the
authority of this ordinance.”
2. Renumber Section 19 to read
“Section 21”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 292-06.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale by the
City of Airport System Revenue
Refunding Bonds to refund outstanding Airport System Revenue
Bonds to obtain debt service savings; authorizing hedge agreements,
supplemental indentures, and other
agreements related to Airport System Revenue Bonds; and authorizing
and approving related matters.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. Insert new Sections 18 and 19
to read as follows:
“Section 18. That the authority
granted by this ordinance for the
issuance and sale of Refunding
Bonds, Hedge Agreements, Supplemental Indentures or other agreements shall expire two years from
the effective date of this ordinance.
If the issuance of a given Refunding Bond, Hedge Agreement, Supplemental Indenture or other agreement is initiated by the Director of
Finance under the authority of this
ordinance at anytime within the
two-year period following its effective date, then the authority granted in this ordinance shall not expire
as to that issuance, agreement or
indenture; but no issuance, agreement or indenture may be initiated
under the authority of this ordinance later than two years after its
effective date.”
“Section 19. That the Director of
Finance shall notify the Chairman of
the Finance Committee and the Clerk
of this Council of the initiation of the
issuance of any Refunding Bond,
Hedge Agreement, Supplemental Indenture or other agreement under the
authority of this ordinance.”
2. Renumber Section 18 to read
“Section 20”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 449-06.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of traffic signal and pavement marking equipment, including but not limited to
poles,
signals,
controllers,
sign
blanks, traffic paint, beads, hardware, related incidental supplies
and materials, and labor when necessary, for the Division of Traffic
Engineering, Department of Public
Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 450-06.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into one or more requirement
contracts without competitive bidding with Air Power of Ohio Company for Ingersoll Rand air compressor parts, including labor if necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 451-06.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into one or more requirement
contracts without competitive bidding with The McLean Co. for Wirtgen milling machine and equipment
parts, including labor if necessary,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 497-06.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service
to enter into one or more contracts
with Greater Cleveland Partnership to reimburse it for Superior
Avenue banners Public Art Project
management and engineering services.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Public Service; Passage recommended by Committee

675

23
on Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 3; and in Section 1, line 2, strike “Greater” and
insert “Downtown”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 507-06.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Economic Development to expend
Economic
Development
Initiative
Grant funds to extend the terms of
a lease with MidTown Associates,
LLC.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance; when amended as follows:
1. Strike the title on the endorsement page in its entirety and insert:
“An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Economic Development to expend
Economic
Development
Initiative
Grant funds to extend the terms of
a lease with MidTown Associates,
LLC.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 599-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to
enter into one or more contracts
with ACL Services Ltd. for professional services necessary to provide
training
courses
for
ACL105,
ACL291, and Desktop Edition software.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 601-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of building
materials and used paving bricks,
for the various divisions of City
government.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law;
Passage
recommended
by
Committee on Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 3, strike “for
a two-year period” and insert “for a
period of one or two years”; and at
the end, add “The Director of

24
Finance is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with a term
of two years instead of one year
when there is a financial advantage
to the City. For purposes of this
ordinance, a financial advantage
shall be determined by the Director
of Finance by comparing the bids
received for both terms.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 602-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of janitorial
supplies and equipment, for the various divisions of City government.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance; when amended
as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 3, strike “for
a two-year period” and insert “for a
period of one or two years”; and at
the end, add “The Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with a term
of two years instead of one year
when there is a financial advantage
to the City. For purposes of this
ordinance, a financial advantage
shall be determined by the Director
of Finance by comparing the bids
received for both terms.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 603-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of plumbing
supplies and equipment, for the
various divisions of City government.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance; when amended
as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 3, strike “for
a two-year period” and insert “for a
period of one or two years”; and at
the end, add “The Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with a term
of two years instead of one year
when there is a financial advantage
to the City. For purposes of this
ordinance, a financial advantage
shall be determined by the Director
of Finance by comparing the bids
received for both terms.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legisla-

The City Record
tion was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 604-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of ready mix
concrete, for the various divisions of
City government.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance; when amended
as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 3, strike “for
a two-year period” and insert “for a
period of one or two years”; and at
the end, add “The Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with a term
of two years instead of one year
when there is a financial advantage
to the City. For purposes of this
ordinance, a financial advantage
shall be determined by the Director
of Finance by comparing the bids
received for both terms.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
MOTION
By Council Member Kelley, seconded by Council Member Polensek
and unanimously carried that the
absence of Council Members Fannie
Lewis and Sabra Pierce Scott, be
and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:04 p.m. to meet Monday, April 17,
2006 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chambers.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL
April 5, 2006
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, April 5, 2006,
at 10:30 a.m. with Director Triozzi
presiding.
Present: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director O’Malley, Interim
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Director

676

April 12, 2006
Flask, Interim Director Cox, Directors Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Interim Director Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Interim
Director Mok, Director Reilly.
Others: Jim Hardy, Commissioner,
Purchases and Supplies.
Debra Linn Talley, Commissioner,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 117-06.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that under
Section 101 of the Charter, Section
181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and Resolution No. 921-52, adopted by the Board
of Control on November 26, 1952, the
report of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for the sale of
scrap, personal property, and byproducts during the month of March,
2006 in the amount of $22,150.68,
attached and made a part of this
resolution, is received, approved and
ordered filed.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director O’Malley, Interim
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Director
Flask, Interim Director Cox, Directors Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Interim Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Interim
Director Mok, Director Reilly.
Resolution No. 118-06.
By Interim Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
354-05, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on April 4, 2005,
Hardy Designs, is selected upon the
nomination of the Director of Public
Utilities from a list of public relation firms determined, after a full
and complete canvass by the Director, as the firm to be employed by
contract for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of several departments of the
City of Cleveland in order to provide
professional services necessary to
perform research, writing, creative
design, photography, artwork, layout, preparation of camera ready
artwork
and
offset
lithographic
reproduction of the 2004 and 2005
Annual Reports for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is requested to enter into a written contract with Hardy Designs, based
upon its proposal dated December 8,
2005, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law and
shall provide for furnishing of professional services as contained in
the proposal and shall contain the
terms and conditions as the Director
of Law deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
work shall commence upon execution of the contract and shall further provide that the aggregate fee
will not be in excess of $63,000.00.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors to Hardy Designs, is approved:

The City Record

April 12, 2006
SUB-CONTRACTOR

AWARD

Polk Photography

$ 3,500.00

Trepal Photography

$ 3,500.00

Fireline

$11,500.00

Modern International

$15,500.00

Albrecht Typography

$ 3,150.00
(FBE) 5%

JB Media

Drummond Design

$ 6,300.00
(MBE) 10%
$ 3,150.00
(FBE) 5%

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director O’Malley, Interim
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Director
Flask, Interim Director Cox, Directors Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Interim Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Interim
Director Mok, Director Reilly.
Resolution No. 119-06.
By Interim Director Mok.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Cleveland Door Controls, Inc., for
labor and materials necessary to
maintain and repair automatic doors,
all items, for the various divisions
of the Department of Port Control,
for a period of one year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on February 1, 2006,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
2069-05, passed on December 5, 2005,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $52,505.25,
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Port Control is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for labor
and
materials
necessary,
which
shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of the
contract of the following:
Requisition No. 160416
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $25,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for labor and
materials, whether more or less than
the estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director O’Malley, Interim
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Director
Flask, Interim Director Cox, Directors Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Interim Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Interim
Director Mok, Director Reilly.
Resolution No. 120-06.
By Interim Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Ganley Ford West, Inc.
for an estimated quantity of Ford
passenger car parts and labor if necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service, for the period of two
years beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on

February 15, 2006, under the authority of Ordinance No. 470-04, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on April 26, 2004, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $400,000.00 (2% Net
30 Days), is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 154351
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $80,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director O’Malley, Interim
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Director
Flask, Interim Director Cox, Directors Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Interim Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Interim
Director Mok, Director Reilly.
Resolution No. 121-06.
By Interim Director Wasik.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Unique Paving Materials Corporation for an estimated quantity of
SS1 Tack Coat, item 1, for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Service, for the period of one (1)
year beginning with the execution
of this contract, received on February 23, 2006, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1877-05, passed December 5, 2005, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to $49,200.00, is approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 160036
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of $5,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director O’Malley, Interim
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Director
Flask, Interim Director Cox, Directors Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Interim Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Interim
Director Mok, Director Reilly.
Resolution No. 122-06.
By Interim Director Wasik.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the
bid of Unique Paving Materials

677

25
Corporation for an estimated quantity of cold mix, item 1, for the
Division of Streets, Department of
Public Service, for the period of
one (1) year beginning with the
execution of this contract, received
on February 23, 2006, under the
authority of Ordinance No. 1876-05,
passed December 5, 2005, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $201,920.00, is
approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Public Service is requested to enter into a
requirement
contract
for
such
goods and/or services, which shall
provide for the immediate purchase
as the initial amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 160035
which shall be certified, against such
contract in the sum of $10,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director O’Malley, Interim
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Director
Flask, Interim Director Cox, Directors
Rush,
Hutchinson,
Fumich,
Guzman
and
Interim
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Interim
Director Mok, Director Reilly.
Resolution No. 123-06.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Logos Imaging LLC, for an estimated quantity of digital imaging
system, for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, for the
period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on December 8, 2005,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1086-04, passed by Cleveland City
Council, on August 11, 2004, which
on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to Twenty Three
Thousand
One
Hundred
Thirty
Eight Dollars ($23,138.00), is hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Safety is hereby requested to
enter into a requirement contract for
such goods and/or services, which
shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such
contract of the following:
Requisition No. 145538
as specified,
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of $23,138.00.
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director O’Malley, Interim
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Director
Flask, Interim Director Cox, Direc-

26
tors Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Interim Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Interim
Director Mok, Director Reilly.
Resolution No. 124-06.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Schwarz Uniform, for an estimated quantity of ballistic vest and
related accessories, item 4, for the
Division of Police, Department of
Public Safety, for the period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
September 28, 2005, under the authority of Section No. 135.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$12,950.00, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Safety is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of the contract of the following:
Requisition No. 145547
as specified,
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $12,950.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director O’Malley, Interim
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Director
Flask, Interim Director Cox, Directors Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Interim Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Interim
Director Mok, Director Reilly.
Resolution No. 125-06.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Atwells, for an estimated quantity of ballistic vest and related accessories, items 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, and 8,
for the Division of Police, Department of Public Safety, for the period
of one (1) year beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,
received on September 28, 2005,
under the authority of Section No.
135.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $393,725.00, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Safety is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services, which shall
provide for the immediate purchase
as the initial amount of the contract
of the following:
Requisition No. 145531
as specified,
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $393,725.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods

The City Record
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director O’Malley, Interim
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Director
Flask, Interim Director Cox, Directors Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Interim Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Interim
Director Mok, Director Reilly.
Resolution No. 126-06.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of ThyssenKrupp Elevator, for an
estimated quantity of labor and
materials necessary to service and
maintain elevators, all items, for the
Division of Police, Department of
Public Safety, for the period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
February 23, 2006, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1830-05, passed
by Cleveland City Council on December 5, 2005, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to $27,840.00, is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Safety is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of the contract of the following:
Requisition No. 145541
as specified,
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $27,840.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director O’Malley, Interim
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Director
Flask, Interim Director Cox, Directors Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Interim Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Interim
Director Mok, Director Reilly.
Resolution No. 127-06.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Fire Safety Services, for an estimated quantity of breathing apparatus and repair, items 1-58, 60-133,
135-136, 138-184, 186-192, 194-246, 249283, 285-300 and 302-309, for the Division of Fire, Department of Public
Safety, for the period of one (1)
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
January 27, 2006, under the authority of Ordinance No. 580-05, passed by
Cleveland City Council on June 6,
2005, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$65,318,63, is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Safety is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the goods

678

April 12, 2006
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of the contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 160951
as specified,
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $10,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director O’Malley, Interim
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Director
Flask, Interim Director Cox, Directors Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Interim Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Interim
Director Mok, Director Reilly.
Resolution No. 128-06.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Fire Force Inc, for an estimated
quantity of breathing apparatus and
repair, items 59, 134, 137, 185, 193,
247, 248, 284 and 301, for the Division of Fire, Department of Public
Safety, for the period of one (1)
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
January 27, 2006, under the authority of Ordinance No. 580-05, passed by
Cleveland City Council on June 6,
2005, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$5,307.36, is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Safety is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of the contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 160950
as specified,
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $5,307.36.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director O’Malley, Interim
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Director
Flask, Interim Director Cox, Directors Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Interim Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Interim
Director Mok, Director Reilly.
Resolution No. 129-06.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1642-05, passed November 14, 2005, by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, the Director of
Community Development and the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to enter into an
agreement with the Orlando Baking

The City Record

April 12, 2006
Company, or an entity controlled by
them, providing for the exchange of
real properties; and
Whereas, the agreement authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall include assurances that the exchange was conducted using fair market values as
determined by the Board of Control;
and
Whereas, the City-owned property
no longer needed for public use, the
property being described in the ordinance and located in the City of
Cleveland, and known as Permanent
Parcel Numbers 124-28-030, 031, 032,
034, 035, 036, 037, 038, 077, 040, 041,
043, 044, 045, 046, 079 and 002 shall
be conveyed to the Orlando Baking
Company in exchange for Permanent Parcel Numbers 121-33-120, 121,
128, 129, 130, 145, 146, 147, 132, and
128-03-011, now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
under Ordinance No. 1642-05, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on November 14, 2005, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is directed to convey certain Cityowned property no longer needed
for public use, the property being
described in the ordinance and
located in the City of Cleveland, and
known as Permanent Parcel Numbers 124-28-030, 031, 032, 034, 035, 036,
037, 038, 077, 040, 041, 043, 044, 045,
046, 079, and 002 to the Orlando Baking Company in exchange for Permanent Parcel Numbers 121-33-120,
121, 128, 129, 130, 145, 146, 147, 132,
and 128-03-011. It is determined by
the Board of Control that the
exchange of real property has been
conducted using fair market values.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Community Development
is authorized to execute on behalf
of the City all necessary documents
to acquire and convey the property
described in Ordinance No. 1642-05.
The documents shall include such
restrictive reversionary interests as
may be specified by the Director of
Law as he deems necessary to protect and benefit the public.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director O’Malley, Interim
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Director
Flask, Interim Director Cox, Directors Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Interim Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Interim
Director Mok, Director Reilly.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service
Commission and filed at the office
of the commission not later than the

final closing date slated in the
examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, APRIL 24, 2006

27
District and a Two-Family District
on the northeast corner of Fulton
Parkway and Memphis Avenue at
4261 Fulton Parkway; the proposed expansion limited by Section
337.03 that does not permit an office
and parking for the facility in a
Two-Family District; and Section
343.01G(3) allows an office in a
Local Retail District, provided that
the number of personnel employed
for the business or profession does
not exceed more than five persons
at any one time; and contrary to Section 357.07(a), a 6' setback is provided where the setback requirements are 20' along Memphis Avenue and 10' along Fulton Parkway;
and there is no landscaping provided, contrary to Section 352.10 that
requires a 6' wide landscape strip
along Memphis Avenue and Fulton
Parkway to separate the parking lot
from the street; and the proposed
expansion
of
the
existing
nonconforming use requires the Board
of Zoning Appeals approval, as stated in Section 359.01 of the Codified
Ordinances.

9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 06-50: 9422 Buckeye
Road (Ward 4)
The Calvary Apostolic Assembly
Church c/o Pastor Louis Fitzpatrick,
owner, and Darryl Lyn Lamb, agent,
appeal to change the use of property to a car wash and to detail automobiles where there is an existing
one-story masonry garage, situated
on a 40' x 150' parcel located in a
General Retail Business District on
the south side of Buckeye Road at
9422 Buckeye Road; and the proposed use is approximately 30' from
a Residence District to the north,
instead of not less than a 100' distance
as
required
in
Section
343.11(b)(2)(I)(2) of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 06-53: 2925 Jay Avenue
(Ward 13)
Jay & 30 Project, LLC, owner,
and Douglas Wahl, agent, appeal
to erect a two-story frame, two
family dwelling on a 40' x 107' corner lot where there is parking for
three dwelling units, located in a
Two-Family District on the southeast corner of Jay Avenue and
West
30th
Street
at
2925
Jay
Avenue; subject to the limitations
of Section 349.05(a), no parking
space shall be located within 10' of
a residential building or structure
if the wall facing the space contains
a
ground
floor
opening
designed to provide light or ventilation; and contrary to Section
355.04(b)A,
the
maximum
gross
floor area provided is 4,280 s/f
instead of 6,000 s/f; with a 6' rear
yard depth where 20' is required in
Section 357.08; and an 8' distance
is provided instead of 10' from a
main building on an adjoining lot,
contrary to Section 357.09(2)(B) of
the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 06-55: 4261 Fulton Parkway (Ward 15)
Downing
Memphis
LLC
and
Michael Downing, owner, appeal to
erect an addition to an existing nonconforming use, situated on an
acreage parcel, located in split
zoning for a Local Retail Business

679

Calendar No. 06-56: 17102 Puritas
Avenue (Ward 21)
Terry Hengoed, owner, appeals to
erect a 24' x 24' one-story, frame
accessory garage to the rear of an
existing single family residence, situated on a 42' x 120' corner parcel
located in an A1 One-Family District
on the northeast corner of Puritas
Avenue and West 171st Street at
17102 Puritas Avenue; contrary to
the Side Street Yard Regulations,
the proposed garage extends into
the 40' front setback building line
established by the adjacent dwelling
to the north and is contrary to Section 357.05 of the Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, APRIL 10, 2006
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, April 10,
2006, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 06-47: 3321 West 90th
Street
Robert and Rose Neider appealed
to erect a 10'-6" x 19'-10" wolmanized wooden wheelchair ramp at the
front of a one family dwelling in a
One-Family District.
Calendar No. 06-48: 3111 Clinton Avenue
Barry Clemens appealed to add
352 square feet to the fourth floor
of a legal nonconforming townhouse
in a Residence Industry District.
Calendar No. 06-49: 3004 Monroe Avenue
Jeramy Ennis appealed to erect
an 11'-10" x 22' addition at the rear
of a one family dwelling in a TwoFamily District.

The City Record

28
The following appeal was Withdrawn:
None.
The following
missed:

appeal

was

Dis-

None.

Calendar No. 06-36: 6308 Fleet Avenue
Kazimierz Chruscik appealed to
convert the first floor of an existing
building to a grocery store with
accessory food processing and a 30
seat restaurant in a Local Retail
Business District; subject to conditions.
Secretary

The following appeal was Postponed:
Calendar No. 06-46: 6402 Lansing
Avenue postponed to May 8, 2006.
In Executive Session on April 10,
2006, the following appeals heard by
the Board on April 3, 2006 were
adopted and approved.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 06-41: 1948-56 Columbus
Road – Parcel B
Paul Koepf appealed to change an
existing building to a residential
use, subject to approval of a lot split
and newly created 4,680 s/f lot, to a
2,700 s/f single family dwelling in a
Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 06-42: 1948-56 Columbus
Road – Parcel C
Paul Koepf appealed to change an
existing building to a residential
use, subject to approval of a lot split
and newly created 4,290 s/f lot to a
2,425 s/f single family dwelling in a
Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 06-43: 1948-56 Columbus
Road – Parcel D
Paul Koepf appealed to change an
existing building to a residential
use, subject to approval of a lot split
and newly created 2,880 s/f lot to a
4,200 s/f single family dwelling in a
Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 06-44: 1948-56 Columbus
Road – Parcel E
Paul Koepf appealed to change an
existing building to a residential
use, subject to approval of a lot split
and newly created 2,886 s/f lotto a
4,480 s/f single family dwelling in a
Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 06-45: 3140 West 98th
Street
Mutual
Properties,
owner,
appealed to make alterations and construct a 5,119 s/f addition and establish
use
for
Cuyahoga
County
Employment and Family Services on
the premises of a one-story retail
building in a General Retail Business District.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 06-22: 2051 East 125th
Street
Jim & Jeff Ltd., owner, appealed
to place three air conditioning units
in the south side yard of an existing two-story, multi-family building
in a Multi-Family District.
The following appeal heard by the
Board on March 27, 2006 was adopted and approved:
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

April 12, 2006

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Re: Report of the Meeting of
April 5, 2006
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
*

*

*

Docket A-62-02.
RE: Appeal of Jacobs Investment
Management, Owner of the Property
located on the premises known as
2000 Sycamore Street from an ADJUDICATION ORDER, of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, dated April 17, 2002, requiring compliance with the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-6202 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for April
18, 2006.
*

*

*

Docket A-2-06.
RE: Appeal of Palik Properties,
Inc. (Meyers Corbox), Owner of the
Property located on the premises
known as 6701 Hubbard Avenue
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
FIRE CODE of the Chief of the Division of Fire, dated November 15,
2005, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-2-06 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for a
later date.
*

*

*

Docket A-10-06.
RE: Appeal of David N. Myers University C/O Greater Heights Academy, Owner of the Property located
on the premises known as 112
Prospect Avenue from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION — FIRE CODE of the
Chief of the Division of Fire, dated
January 11, 2006, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
No action required by the Board
at this time.
*

*

*

Docket A-16-06.
RE: Appeal of United Properties
C/O ZMDS, Inc., Owner of the Two
Story Masonry Property located on

680

the premises known as 2132 West
25th Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — DISPLAY SIGNS of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, dated February 23,
2006, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant up to six (6) months in
which to abate the violations and
obtain the property permits, noting
that the process should take much
less than six (6) months. Motion so
in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-20-06.
RE: Appeal of Krause Project
Partners, Owner of the Property
located on the premises known as
2042-44 East 4th Street from an
ADJUDICATION ORDER, of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, dated March 15,
2006, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to permit the light
well to be open with the installation
of the windows with sprinkler systems as protection, to grant the
equivalent fire protection for that
space to the adjacent building and
the installation of noncombustible
balconies in that light well area as
proposed. Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-22-06.
RE: Appeal of M. Weingold &
Company, Owner of the Semi-Industry Property located on the premises known as 3915 East 91st Street
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
CERTIFICATE
OF
OCCUPANCY
INSPECTION of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing,
dated
February
23,
2006,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain the required “Certificate of
Occupancy”. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-23-06.
RE: Appeal of M. Weingold &
Company, Owner of the Semi-Industry Property located on the premises known as 3967 East 93rd Street
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
CERTIFICATE
OF
OCCUPANCY

The City Record

April 12, 2006
INSPECTION of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing,
dated
February
23,
2006,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain the required “Certificate of
Occupancy”. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-24-06.
RE: Appeal of Norfolk and Western RR, Owner of the Semi-Industry Property located on the premises known as 3455 Campbell Road
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
ILLEGAL USE of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, dated February 24, 2006,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain the required “Certificate of
Occupancy”. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-25-06.
RE: Appeal of M.W. Acquisitions,
Owner of the One Story Masonry
Property located on the premises
known as 9515 Woodland Avenue
(aka 10420 Quincy Avenue) from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — UNAUTHORIZED USE of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, dated March 10, 2006,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain the required “Certificate of
Occupancy”. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-26-06.
RE: Appeal of M.W. Acquisitions,
Owner of the One Story Masonry
Property located on the premises
known as 9515 Woodland Avenue
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
UNAUTHORIZED USE of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, dated March 10, 2006,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the

Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain the required “Certificate of
Occupancy”. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-28-06.
RE: Appeal of Carol T. Sakoumagus, Owner of the Property
located on the premises known as
12029
Lorain
Avenue
from
an
ADJUDICATION ORDER of the
Director
of
the
Department
of
Building and Housing, dated March
14, 2006, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance and permit the awning to be
installed as proposed. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-29-06.
RE: Appeal of Harry Rock & Company, Owner of the One Story
Masonry Property located on the
premises known as 4900 Woodland
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY INSPECTION of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, dated February 22, 2006,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain the required “Certificate of
Occupancy”. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-30-06.
RE: Appeal of Ryan P. Wach,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 2317 West
5th Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
CERTIFICATE
OF
OCCUPANCY INSPECTION of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, dated March 28,
2006, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance and permit the building to be
reviewed as a single family residence, with the provision that a residential sprinkler system be installed. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley.
Nays: None. Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
Not Voting: Mr. Saunders.

681

29
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-14-06—Akram Elkhatib.
A-17-06—Flats Development.
A-19-06—Ellis & Rosetta Dozier.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Bradley for Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
March 22, 2006
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE
NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE

The City Record

30
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 2006
Turnout Clothing, for the Division
of Fire, Department of Public
Safety, as authorized by Section
135.06, of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
MONDAY, APRIL 17, 2006 AT 10:30
A.M., CLEVELAND FIRE HEADQUARTERS,
BASEMENT
CONFERENCE ROOM, 1645 SUPERIOR
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
Powered Cots, for the Division of
Fire, Department of Public Safety,
as authorized by Ordinance No. 304, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, February 9,
2004.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
MONDAY, APRIL 17, 2006 AT 11:00
A.M., CLEVELAND FIRE HEADQUARTERS,
BASEMENT
CONFERENCE ROOM, 1645 SUPERIOR
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
Automatic Vehicle Location Upgrade
(Re-Bid), for the Division of ISS,
Department of Public Safety, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 108604, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, August 11, 2004.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
MONDAY, APRIL 17, 2006 AT 11:00
A.M.,
205
WEST
ST.
CLAIR
STREET, 5TH FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44114.

THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 2006 AT
10:00 A.M., FIRE STATION NO. 1,
1645 SUPERIOR AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
April 5, 2006 and April 12, 2006
MONDAY, APRIL 28, 2006
Technology and Security Center Project No. 536 (Re-Bid), for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 758-04, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 7, 2004.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
ONE
HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00) IN THE FORM OF A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
AND/OR
MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2006 AT
9:00
A.M.,
BALDWIN
WATER
WORKS
PLANT
TRAINING
ROOM, 11216 STOKES BOULEVARD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44104.
Microfiche and CD Rom Services, for
the Various Divisions of City
Government,
Department
of
Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 238-06, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
February 27, 2006.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
MONDAY, APRIL 17, 2006 AT 10:30
A.M., CITY HALL, DIVISION OF
PURCHASES
AND
SUPPLIES,
ROOM 128, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
April 5, 2006 and April 12, 2006
FRIDAY, MAY 5, 2006
Natural Gas, for the Various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. pending
passage.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
TUESDAY, APRIL 18, 2006 AT
10:30 A.M., CITY HALL, DIVISION
OF PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES,
ROOM 128, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
April 5, 2006 and April 12, 2006
THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 2006

April 5, 2006 and April 12, 2006
THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 2006
Various Fire Station Roof Replacements, for the Division of Architecture, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 2145-03, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, February
9, 2004.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING

2006 Summer Food Program (Breakfasts and Lunches), for the Division of Recreation, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
as authorized by Ordinance No. 84505, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 6, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 2006 AT
12:00 P.M., DIVISION OF RECREATION, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
ROOM 8, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Food, Food Products, Beverages,
Condiments and Paper Products at
Camp Forbes, for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Parks,

682

April 12, 2006
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 84505, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 6, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 2006 AT
1:00 P.M., DIVISION OF RECREATION, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
ROOM 8, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
April 12, 2006 and April 19, 2006
WEDNESDAY, MAY 3, 2006
Pool Chemicals, for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 45706 pending.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 2006 AT
1:30 P.M., DIVISION OF RECREATION, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
ROOM 8, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Armed Security Services, for the
Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, as authorized by Ordinance No. 456-06 pending.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 2006 AT
2:00 P.M., DIVISION OF RECREATION, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
ROOM 8, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Asbestos Abatement of St. Michael’s
Hospital Main Building, for the
Division of Property Management,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 2152-03, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, January 5, 2004.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY
DOLLARS
($50.00)
IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING, TUESDAY,
APRIL 25, 2006 AT 10:00 A.M.,
CITY
HALL,
ROOM
509,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.
April 12, 2006 and April 19, 2006
THURSDAY, MAY 4, 2006
Estimated Quantity of Ten (10)
Cab/Chassis with 25-Cubic Yards
Refuse Packer Bodies, for Various
Divisions, Department of Public
Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 762-05, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
May 9, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, APRIL 25, 2006 AT 2:00
P.M., DIVISION OF MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, 4150 EAST
49TH STREET, BUILDING #1,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
April 12, 2006 and April 19, 2006

April 12, 2006
WEDNESDAY, MAY 10, 2006
Ready Mix-Concrete 2006, for the
Various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 60406 pending.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
TUESDAY, APRIL 25, 2006 AT
10:00 A.M., CITY HALL, DIVISION
OF PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES,
ROOM 128, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Scrap Metals, for the Various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, as authorized by Section 181.19 of the Codified
Ordinances
of
Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
TUESDAY, APRIL 25, 2006 AT
11:00 A.M., DEPARTMENT OF
FINANCE,
CITY
HALL,
601
LAKESIDE AVENUE, ROOM 128,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
April 12, 2006 and April 19, 2006

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 620-06.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency resolution fixing
the location for certain meetings of
Cleveland City Council on certain
dates in April and May, 2006.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council of the
City of Cleveland shall hold its regular meeting on April 24, 2006 at
Estabrook Recreation Center at 7:00
pm and its regular meeting on May
22, 2006 at Earle Turner Recreation
Center at 7:00 pm.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

Res. No. 628-06.
By Council Members Lewis and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution rejecting
in its entirety the Fact-Finder’s findings and recommendations in the
matter of City of Cleveland and the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO, Local 39.
Whereas, findings and recommendations of the Fact-Finder have
been submitted to this Council under
division(C)(6)(a) of Section 4117.14
of the Revised Code; and

The City Record
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, having duly considered the Fact-Finder’s findings
and recommendations in the matter
of City of Cleveland and the International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers, AFL-CIO, Local 39 (SERB
Case No. 03-MED-12-1411, SERB Case
No. 03-MED-12-1412, and FMCS Case
No. 050516-55920-8), which are dated
March 28, 2006 and which were
served on the City’s representative
on March 31, 2006, a copy of which
are contained in File No. 628-06-A,
this Council rejects the Fact-Finder’s findings and recommendations
in their entirety.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

Ord. No. 2073-05.
By Council Members Johnson and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation, and Properties to enter into
an agreement to allow the City to
accept a donation of computer hardware and services from the East
Cuyahoga County Genealogical Society; and authorizing the Director to
accept the donation.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Parks, Recreation,
and Properties is authorized to enter
into an agreement with the East
Cuyahoga County Genealogical Society for the donation of computer
hardware and services to create a
database of the City’s cemetery
records.
Section 2. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation, and Properties is
authorized to accept the donation
described in Section 1 above, which
is estimated to be in excess of
$10,000, from the East Cuyahoga
County Genealogical Society.
Section 3. That the agreement
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

683

31
Ord. No. 2134-05.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of materials,
parts, and supplies for electrical
maintenance, for the various divisions
of the Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a period of one or
two years of the necessary items of
materials, parts, and supplies for
electrical maintenance, in the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the various divisions of the
Department of Public Utilities. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any
combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire term. The Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with a term
of two years instead of one year
when there is a financial advantage
to the City. For purposes of this
ordinance, a financial advantage
shall be determined by the Director
of Public Utilities by comparing the
bids received for both terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 159379)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

Ord. No. 2206-05.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
University Hospitals for the Safe
Communities, DUI Prevention Task
Force Program.

32
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
amount of $16,000, from University
Hospitals
to
conduct
the
Safe
Communities, DUI Prevention Task
Force Program; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
planning worksheet for the grant
contained
in
the
file
described
below.
Section 2. That the planning worksheet for the grant, File No. 2206-05A, made a part of this ordinance as
if fully rewritten, as presented to
the Finance Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
if the extension does not involve an
increase in the dollar amount of the
grant specified above.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

Ord. No. 191-06.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of AutoCAD
computer program upgrades including maintenance and support for a
period of one year, for the Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a one year period of
the necessary items of AutoCAD
computer program upgrades including maintenance and support, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a

The City Record
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control
determines. Alternate bids for a
period less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 157739)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. The Director of Public
utilities is authorized to enter into
any
third-party
software
license
agreements necessary to effectuate
the purposes of this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

Ord. No. 296-06.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
types of fuel, fuel oil, and propane
needed for backup power generating
equipment systems, including supporting services, for the various
divisions of the Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one or
two years of the necessary items of
various types of fuel, fuel oil, and
propane, needed for backup power
generating equipment systems, including supporting services, in the

684

April 12, 2006
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the various divisions of the
Department of Public Utilities. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term. The Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into one
or more contracts with a term of
two years instead of one year when
there is a financial advantage to the
City. For purposes of this ordinance,
a financial advantage shall be determined by the Director of Public Utilities by comparing the bids received
for both terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 157776)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

Ord. No. 314-06.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into a contract with the HLC
Group for diversity training for the
Division of Fire.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with the
HLC Group for diversity training for

April 12, 2006
the lieutenants for the Division of
Fire,
in
the
total
amount
of
$27,900.00, from Fund No. 01-600301623000, Request No. 160940, for the
Department of Public Safety.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

Ord. No. 376-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to The Historic
Warehouse
District
Development
Corporation to encroach into the
public right-of-way within the Historic Warehouse District on every
historic light pole by installing,
using, and maintaining Hanging
Flower Baskets.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, to The Historic Warehouse
District Development Corporation,
614 West Superior Avenue, Suite 680
Cleveland Oh 44113 (“Permittee”), to
encroach into public rights-of-way
within the Historic Warehouse District by installing, using, and maintaining hanging flower baskets on
every historic light pole located
within The Historic Warehouse District bounded on the North by Front
Street, on the South by West Superior Avenue, on the West by West
10th Street, and on the East by West
3rd Street.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of Public Service. That the encroaching structures permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans
and specifications approved by the
Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall
incorporate such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest. The permit shall be
issued only when, in the opinion of
the Director of Law, Permittee has
properly
indemnified
the
City
against any loss that may result
from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the

The City Record
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

Ord. No. 452-06.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
accept a donation of a microscope
glove box from McCrone Microscopes & Accessories, for the Division of Fire, Department of Public
Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to accept
on behalf of the Division of Fire a
microscope glove box for the newly
developed weapons of mass destruction mobile response vehicle, valued
at $105,000.00, from McCrone Microscopes & Accessories.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

Ord. No. 453-06.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
accept a donation of a 2006 Mercury
Mariner Hybrid vehicle from the
Ford Motor Company, for the Division of Police, Department of Public
Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to accept
on behalf of the Division of Police
a 2006 Mercury Mariner Hybrid vehicle, valued at $32,898.01, from the
Ford Motor Company.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

685

33
Ord. No. 456-06.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brady, Johnson and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of security
services at the outdoor pools located at Lonnie Burten Recreation Center and Halloran Park for the summer season, for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to make one or more
written requirement contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
the requirements for a period not to
exceed one year of the necessary
items of security services at the outdoor pools located at Lonnie Burten
Recreation
Center
and
Halloran
Park for the summer season, in the
estimated sum of $25,000, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 166587)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

Ord. No. 457-06.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
pool chemicals, for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

34
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to make one or more
written requirement contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
the requirements for the period of
one year of the necessary items of
various pool chemicals, in the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 166581)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

Ord. No. 458-06.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
contract with the Cleveland Municipal Football Association to conduct
a city-wide football program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into contract
with the Cleveland Municipal Football Association to conduct a citywide football program, in an amount
not to exceed $71,000, payable from
Fund No. 01-700401-638000, Request
No. 166585.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the

The City Record
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

Ord. No. 459-06.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
contract with the Salvation Army
for administrating and facilitating
recreational services in Ward 11, for
the Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into contract
with the Salvation Army, Cleveland
Temple Corps, 17625 Grovewood Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio, 44119, or its
designee, to administer and facilitate recreational services in the
Collinwood Community in Ward 11,
for the Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, in the total sum of
$100,000, payable from Fund No. 01700401-638000, Request No. 166583.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

Ord. No. 506-06.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into an
agreement with the Neighborhood
Leadership Institute to implement
educational, recreational and cultural programs in various school buildings during evening hours.
Whereas, based on recommendations made by the Cleveland Summit
on Education, certain pilot programs
were created; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into an agreement with Neighborhood Leadership

686

April 12, 2006
Institute to implement educational,
recreational and cultural programs
in various school buildings during
evening hours, in an amount not to
exceed $247,511.00, payable from
Fund No. 01-700401-638000, Request
No. 166584.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

Ord. No. 569-06.
By Council Members Cummins,
Kelley, Brady and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
apply
for
and
accept
an
Ohio
Department of Transportation State
Infrastructure Bank Loan to finance
the City’s share of the replacement
of the Fulton Road Bridge; and to
cause payment of the City’s share of
the bridge replacement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to apply
for and accept an Ohio Department
of Transportation State Infrastructure Bank Loan (the “Loan”) in the
approximate amount of $2,100,000 to
finance the City’s share of the replacement
of
the
Fulton
Road
Bridge (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into a loan agreement with the Ohio
Department of Transportation for an
Ohio Department of Transportation
State Infrastructure Bank Loan according to terms contained in File
No. 569-06-A, and shall contain additional terms that are acceptable to
the Director of Law to protect the
public interest. The Director of Public
Service
or
the
Director
of
Finance, as appropriate, is further
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the Loan;
and to appropriate the Loan funds
for the purposes set forth in the file.
Section 3. That on execution of the
loan agreement, the Director of Public Service is authorized to repay the
Loan to the Ohio Department of
Transportation under terms and conditions contained in the loan agreement.
Section 4. That this Council authorizes payment to the State of Ohio
of the City’s share of the replacement of the Fulton Road Bridge,
from the fund or funds to which are
credited the Loan proceeds received
as authorized by this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all

April 12, 2006
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 4, 2006.

Ord. No. 605-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to
enter into an agreement with Pillsbury, Winthrop, Shaw, Pittman LLP
for federal lobbying services for the
City of Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
an agreement with Pillsbury, Winthrop, Shaw, Pittman LLP for federal lobbying services for the City
of Cleveland, for a period not to
exceed nine months, payable from
Fund No. 01-999800-632000, Request
No. 146268.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 4, 2006.

Ord. No. 621-06.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 173.071 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 882-92,
passed April 13, 1992, relating to
Reimbursement
of
Expenses
for
Members of Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 173.071 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 882-92, passed April
13, 1992, the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, is hereby
amended to read as follows:
Section 173.071 Reimbursement of
Expense for Members of Council
The members of Council shall be
entitled to be reimbursed the cost of
expenses incurred by them in the
performance of their official duties
in an amount not to exceed twelve
hundred dollars ($1,200) per month.
Requests for reimbursement shall be
submitted monthly in writing to the
Clerk of Council. Expenses submit-

The City Record
ted for reimbursement must be substantiated by written documentation
in accordance with guidelines for
the reporting of expenses by members of Council promulgated by the
President of Council and approved
by the rules Committee of the Council based upon the applicable reporting requirements of the federal
income tax code for employee expense reimbursement programs. Notwithstanding the requirements of
Section 171.43, members of Council
may be reimbursed for the use of
their vehicles in the performance of
their official duties at the rate for
mileage allowance promulgated by
the Internal Revenue Service. Notwithstanding any ordinance to the
contrary, any Council Member may
increase his or her Executive Assistant’s hourly rate of pay in excess
of the standard rate in effect for
Council Member Executive Assistants consistent with the aforementioned Council expense reimbursement policy.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

Ord. No. 622-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance amending the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1314-05 passed July 13,
2005 as it pertains to authorizing the
Director of Community Development
to enter into an agreement with
Tremont West Development Corporation
for
the
Student
Theatre
Enrichment Program through the
use of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1314-05
passed July 13, 2005 are hereby
amended to read as follow:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into an agreement with the Tremont West Development Corporation for the Student
Theatre Enrichment Program through
the use of Ward 13 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Tremont West Development
Corporation for the Student Theatre
Enrichment Program for the public
purpose of providing educational
opportunities for Cleveland youth in
the performing arts through the use
of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1314-05

687

35
passed July 13, 2005 are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

Ord. No. 623-06.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Case Western Reserve
University for the Case Western
Reserve University National Youth
Sports Program through the use of
Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Case Western Reserve University for the Case Western Reserve
University National Youth Sports
Program for the public purpose of
providing educational and recreational activities for economically
disadvantaged
Cleveland
youths
through the use of Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $38,900 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

Ord. No. 624-06.
By Council Members Coats and
Polensek.
An emergency ordinance amending
the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1199-05, passed June 6, 2006
as it pertains to the Sims Raiders
Youth Organization for a Youth Football Program through the use of
Ward 11 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

36
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 119905, passed June 6, 2005 are hereby
amended to read as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into or
amend contracts with the Sims
Raiders Youth Organization and the
Northeast
Neighborhood
Development Corporation serving as the fiscal agent for the Youth Football Program through the use of Wards 10
and 11 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
enter into or amend contracts with
the Sims Raiders Youth Organization and the Northeast Neighborhood
Development Corporation serving as
the fiscal agent for the Youth Football Program for the public purpose
of providing organized recreational
activities for City of Cleveland
youth through the use of Wards 10
and 11 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $6,500 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 119905, passed June 6, 2005 are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

Ord. No. 625-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to repeal
Ordinances
Nos.
1546-05
passed
August 3, 2005 and 1793-05, passed
September
19,
2005,
relating
to
authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into an
agreement
with
Tremont
West
Development Corporation for the
Student Theatre Enrichment Program through the use of Ward 13
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Ordinances 1546-05
passed August 3, 2005 and 1793-05,
passed
September
19,
2005,
are
repealed.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

The City Record
Ord. No. 626-06.
By
Council
Members
Turner,
Polensek, Kelley, Westbrook, Brady
and Dolan.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with the Cleveland Restoration
Society
for
the
Heritage
Home
Preservation Program through the
use of Ward(s) 1, 11, 16, 18, 19 and
21 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Preservation Program for the public purpose of promoting restoration and
preservation of historic homes in the
City of Cleveland through the use of
ward(s) 1, 11, 16, 18, 19 and 21
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $61,500 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

April 12, 2006
sultation with the Director of Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 3, 2006.
Effective April 7, 2006.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Wednesday, April 5, 2006
9:30 a.m.
Aviation and Transportation Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice
Chair;
Brancatelli,
Dolan, Britt, Turner. Authorized
Absence: Cleveland.
Monday, April 10, 2006
11:00 a.m.
Legislation Committee: Present:
Cleveland,
Chair;
Reed,
White.
Authorized Absence: Dolan, Vice
Chair;
Pierce
Scott,
Cimperman,
Lewis. Pro-tem: Sweeney, Turner.
2:00 p.m.

Ord. No. 627-06.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Ward 10 Club to stretch a banner across St. Clair at East 146th
Street, for the period from April 6,
2006, to May 5, 2006, inclusive, publicizing the Pancake Breakfast and
Rummage Sale.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the Ward 10 Club
to install, maintain and remove a
banner across St. Clair at East 146th
Street, for the period from April 6,
2006, to May 5, 2006, inclusive. Said
banner shall be approved by the
Director of Public Service, in con-

688

Finance Committee: Present: Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair;
Brady, Britt, Westbrook, White,
Conwell, Brancatelli, Zone, Coats.
Authorized Absence: Pierce Scott.
Tuesday, April 11, 2006
1:30 a.m.
Employment,
and
Training
CELLED.

Affirmative Action
Committee:
CAN-

Wednesday, April 12, 2006
10:00 a.m.
Public Safety Committee: Present:
Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice Chair;
Britt, Cummins, Turner, Kelley, Santiago. Authorized Absence: Coats,
Polensek.
1:30 p.m.
Public Utilities Committee: Present:
Zone,
Chair;
Reed,
Vice
Chair;
Polensek, Cummins, Kelley, WestAuthorized
Abbrook,
Santiago.
sence: Dolan, Cleveland.

The City Record

April 12, 2006

37

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Neighborhood Leadership Institute — educational, recreational and cultural programs —
various school buildings — evening hours (O 506-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 686

Agreements
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home Preservation Program — Wards 1, 11,
19 and 21 NEF (O 626-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pillsbury, Winthrop, Shaw, Pittman LLP — federal lobbying services — Finance Dept.
(O 605-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tremont West Development Corporation — Student Theatre Enrichment Program —
amend Ord. 1314-05 — NEF (O 622-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tremont West Development Corporation — Student Theatre Enrichment Program —
repeal Ord Nos. 1546-05 & 1793-05 — NEF (O 625-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

16, 18,
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 687
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 687
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688

Appreciation
Williams, Elder Monique (R 689-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656
Williams, Sr., Pastor Tony L. (R 688-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

Banners
Mt. Olive Missionary Baptist Church — church’s 6th Annual Juneteenth Celebration (O 663-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 672
Ward 10 Club — Pancake Breakfast and Rummage Sale (O 627-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Brookfield Svenue, 12301, (Ward 19) — Ellis & Rosetta Dozier, owners — appeal adopted on
4/5/06 (Doc. A-19-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Campbell Road, 3455, (Ward 13) — Norfolk and Western Railroad, owner — appeal resolved
on 4/5/06 (Doc. A-24-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 105th, 1014, (Ward 8) — Akram Elkhatib, owner — appeal adopted on 4/5/06
(Doc. A-14-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 4th Street, 2042-44, (Ward 13) — Krause Project Partners, owners — appeal resolved
on 4/5/06 (Doc. A-20-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 91st Street, 3915, (Ward 2) — M. Weingold & Company, owner — appeal resolved
on 4/5/06 (Doc. A-22-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd Street, 3967, (Ward 2) — M. Weingold & Company, owner — appeal resolved
on 4/5/06 (Doc. A-23-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hubbard Avenue, 6701, (Ward 12) — Palik Properties, Inc. (Meyers Cordbox), owner — appeal
postponed to a later date on 4/5/06 (Doc. A-2-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 12029, (Ward 19) — Carol T. Sakoumagus, owner — appeal resolved on 4/5/06
(Doc. A-28-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Main Avenue, 1151, (Ward 13) — Flats Development, owner — appeal adopted on 4/5/06
(Doc. A-17-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Avenue, 112, (Ward 13) — David N. Myers University c/o Greater Heights Academy,
owner — no action on 4/5/06 (Doc. A-10-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sycamore Street, 2000, (Ward 13) — Jacobs Investment Management Co., Inc., owner — appeal
postponed to 4/18/06 on 4/5/06 (Doc. A-62-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 2132, (Ward 13) — United Properties c/o ZMDS, Inc., owner — appeal
resolved on 4/5/06 (Doc. A-16-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 5th Street, 2317, (Ward 13) — Ryan P. Wach owner — appeal resolved on 4/5/06
(Doc. A-30-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodland Avenue, 4900, (Ward 5) — Harry Rock & Company, owner — appeal resolved on 4/5/06
(Doc. A-29-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodland Avenue, 9515, (a.k.a. 10420 Quincy Avenue), (Ward 6) — M.W. Acquisitions, owner —
appeal resolved on 4/5/06 (Doc. A-25-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 681
. . . . . . . . . . . . 681
. . . . . . . . . . . . 681
. . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . 681
. . . . . . . . . . . . 681
. . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . 681
. . . . . . . . . . . . 681
. . . . . . . . . . . . 681

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Annual reports, 2004 and 2005 research, creation and preparation — contract
per Ord. 354-05 to Hardy Design — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 118-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 676

689

The City Record

38

April 12, 2006

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Real property exchange — Orlando Baking Company per Ord. 1642-05
(BOC Res. 129-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678

Board of Control — Finance Department
Sale of scrap. personal property, and by-products in March, 2006 — pursuant to
BOC Res. 921-52 (BOC Res. 117-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 676

Board of Control — Fire Division
Breathing apparatus and repair — contract per Ord. 580-05 to Fire Safety Services —
Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 127-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678
Breathing apparatus and repair — contract per Ord. 580-05 to Fire Force Inc. —
Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 128-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678

Board of Control — Land Acquisition
Real property exchange — Orlando Baking Company per Ord. 1642-05
(BOC Res. 129-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678

Board of Control — Land Sales
Real property exchange — Orlando Baking Company per Ord. 1642-05
(BOC Res. 129-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Ford passenger car parts and labor — contract per Ord. 470-04 to Ganley Ford West, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 120-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677

Board of Control — Police Division
Ballistic vests and accessories — contract per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to Schwarz Uniform —
Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 124-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678
Ballistic vests and accessories — contract per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to Atwells — Dept.
of Public Safety (BOC Res. 125-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678
Digital imaging system — contract per Ord. 1086-04 to Logos Imaging LLC — Dept. of Public
Safety (BOC Res. 123-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677
Elevator service and maintenance — contract per Ord. 1830-05 to ThyssenKrupp Elevator —
Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 126-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Automatic doors, labor and materials to repair and maintain — contract per Ord. 2069-05
to Cleveland Door Controls, Inc. (BOC Res. 119-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Annual reports, 2004 and 2005 research, creation and preparation — contract per Ord.
354-05 to Hardy Design — Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 118-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 676

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Ballistic vests and accessories — contract per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to Schwarz Uniform —
Division of Police (BOC Res. 124-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678
Ballistic vests and accessories — contract per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to Atwells — Division of
Police (BOC Res. 125-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678
Breathing apparatus and repair — contract per Ord. 580-05 to Fire Safety Services —
Division of Fire (BOC Res. 127-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678
Breathing apparatus and repair — contract per Ord. 580-05 to Fire Force Inc. — Division
of Fire (BOC Res. 128-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678
Digital imaging system — contract per Ord. 1086-04 to Logos Imaging LLC — Division
of Police (BOC Res. 123-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677
Elevator service and maintenance — contract per Ord. 1830-05 to ThyssenKrupp Elevator —
Division of Police (BOC Res. 126-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678

690

April 12, 2006

The City Record

39

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Cold mix- contract per Ord. 1876-05 to Unique Paving Materials Corporation —
Division of Streets (BOC Res. 122-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677
Ford passenger car parts and labor — contract per Ord. 470-04 to Ganley Ford West, Inc.
- Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 120-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677
SS1 tack coat — contract per Ord. 1877-05 to Unique Paving Materials Corporation Division of Streets (BOC Res. 121-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Annual reports, 2004 and 2005 research, creation and preparation — contract
per Ord. 354-05 to Hardy Design — Division of Cleveland Public Power
(BOC Res. 118-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 676

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Sale of scrap. personal property, and by-products in March, 2006 — pursuant to
BOC Res. 921-52 (BOC Res. 117-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 676

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Automatic doors, labor and materials to repair and maintain — contract per
Ord. 2069-05 to Cleveland Door Controls, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 119-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ballistic vests and accessories — contract per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to Schwarz Uniform —
Division of Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 124-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ballistic vests and accessories — contract per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to Atwells — Division of
Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 125-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Breathing apparatus and repair — contract per Ord. 580-05 to Fire Safety Services —
Division of Fire, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 127-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Breathing apparatus and repair — contract per Ord. 580-05 to Fire Force Inc. — Division
of Fire, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 128-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cold mix- contract per Ord. 1876-05 to Unique Paving Materials Corporation — Division of
Streets, Dept of Public Service (BOC Res. 122-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Digital imaging system — contract per Ord. 1086-04 to Logos Imaging LLC — Division
of Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 123-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Elevator service and maintenance — contract per Ord. 1830-05 to ThyssenKrupp Elevator
Division of Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 126-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ford passenger car parts and labor — contract per Ord. 470-04 to Ganley Ford
West, Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 120-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
SS1 tack coat — contract per Ord. 1877-05 to Unique Paving Materials Corporation —
Division of Streets, Dept of Public Service (BOC Res. 121-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677

Board of Control — Streets Division
Cold mix- contract per Ord. 1876-05 to Unique Paving Materials Corporation —
Dept of Public Service (BOC Res. 122-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677
SS1 tack coat — contract per Ord. 1877-05 to Unique Paving Materials Corporation —
Dept of Public Service (BOC Res. 121-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Clinton Avenue, 3331, (Ward 13) — Barry Clemens, owner — appeal heard on 4/10/2006
(Cal. 06-48) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Columbus Road, Unit A, 1948-56, (Ward 14) — Paul Koepf, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 4/10/2006 (Cal. 06-41) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Columbus Road, Unit B, 1948-56, (Ward 14) — Paul Koepf, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 4/10/2006 (Cal. 06-42) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Columbus Road, Unit C, 1948-56, (Ward 14) — Paul Koepf, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 4/10/2006 (Cal. 06-43) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Columbus Road, Unit D, 1948-56, (Ward 14) — Paul Koepf, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 4/10/2006 (Cal. 06-44) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 105th Street, 1082-98, (Ward 8) — City of Cleveland Landbank, owner and Maher Ali,
prospective purchaser — appeal denied and adopted on 4/10/2006 (Cal. 06-22) . . . . . . . . . . .
Fleet Avenue, 6308, (Ward 12) — Kazimierz Chruscik, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 3/27/06 (Cal. 06-36) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lansing Avenue, 6402, (Ward 12) — Louis Sainato, owner and Patricia Cole, tenant — appeal
postponed to 5/08/06 on 4/10/2006 (Cal. 06-46) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

691

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680

The City Record

40

Monroe Avenue, 3004, (Ward 14) — Jeramy Ennis, owner — appeal heard
on 4/10/2006 (Cal. 06-49) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 90th Street, 3321, (Ward 18) — Robert and Rose Neider, owner — appeal heard on
4/10/2006 (Cal. 06-47) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 98th Street, 3140, (Ward 14) — Mutual Properties, owner, and Sheldon Gross, agent
appeal granted and adopted on 4/3/06 (Cal. 06-45) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

April 12, 2006
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
—
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Buckeye Road, 9422, (Ward 4) — The Calvary Apostolic Assembly Church c/o Pator Louis
Fitzpatrick, owner and Darryl Lyn Lamb, agent — appeal to be heard on 4/24/2006
(Cal. 06-50) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Parkway, 4261, (Ward 15) — Downing Memphis, LLC and Michael Downing, owner —
appeal to be heard on 4/24/2006 (Cal. 06-55) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jay Avenue, 2925, (Ward 13) — Jay & 30 Project, LLC, owner and Douglas Wahl, agent —
appeal to be heard on 4/24/2006 (Cal. 06-53) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Avenue, 17102, (Ward 21) — Terry Hengoed, owner, — appeal to be heard
on 4/24/2006 (Cal. 06-56) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679

Bridges
Fulton Road Bridge — ODOT Infrastructure Bank Loan — apply & accept (O 569-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 686

Burke Lakefront Airport
Automatic Teller Machines — installation, operation, maintenance — Concession Agreements —
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 2137-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674

Case Western Reserve University
Case Western Reserve University National Youth Sports Program — agreement — Ward 6 NEF
(O 623-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 687

City Council
Council Meetings — fixing locations — April 24 and May 22 (R 620-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683
Reimbursement of Expenses for Members of Council — amend Sect. 173.071
(O 621-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 687

Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority
Flats East Bank Community Plan area — City’s payment — various utility and infrastructure
improvements (O 655-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Automatic Teller Machines — installation, operation, maintenance — Concession Agreements —
Burke Lakefront Airport (O 2137-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674
On-site terminal advertising — Concession Agreements (O 2136-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674
Self-service baggage cart system — operation — concession agreement (O 2138-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674

City of Cleveland Bids
Armed security services — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties —
Division of Recreation — per Ord. 456-06 — bid due May 3, 2006
(advertised 4/12/2006 and 4/19/2006). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Asbestos abatement of St. Michael’s Hospital main building — Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties — Division of Recreation — per Ord. 2152-03 —
bid due May 3, 2006 (advertised 4/12/2006 and 4/19/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automatic vehicle location upgrade (re-bid) — Department of Public Safety —
Division of Information Systems Services — per Ord. 1086-04 — bid due
April 26, 2006 (advertised 4/5/2006 and 4/12/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cab / chassis with 25-cubic yards refuse packer bodies — Department of Public Service —
per Ord. 762-05 — bid due May 4, 2006 (advertised 4/12/2006 and 4/19/2006) . . . . . . . . . .
Concrete, ready mix (2006) — Department of Finance — per Ord.
604-06 — bid due May 10, 2006 (advertised 4/12/2006 and 4/19/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Food, food products, beverages, condiments and paper products for
Camp Forbes — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties —
Division of Recreation — per Ord. 845-05 — bid due April 27, 2006
(advertised 4/12/2006 and 4/19/2006). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

692

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682

April 12, 2006

The City Record

41

Microfiche and CD Rom services — Department of Finance — per Ord.
238-06 — bid due April 28, 2006 (advertised 4/5/2006 and 4/12/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682
Natural gas — Department of Finance — per Ord. — bid due May 5, 2006
(advertised 4/5/2006 and 4/12/2006). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682
Pool chemicals — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties —
Division of Recreation — per Ord. 457-06 — bid due May 3, 2006
(advertised 4/12/2006 and 4/19/2006). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682
Powered cots — Department of Public Safety — Division of Fire — per
Ord. 3-04 — bid due April 26, 2006 (advertised 4/5/2006 and 4/12/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682
Roof replacement at Fire Stations — Department of Public Service —
Division of Architecture — per Ord. 2145-03 — bid due April
27, 2006 (advertised 4/5/2006 and 4/12/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682
Scrap metals — Department of Finance — per C.O. Sec. 181.19 — bid
due May 10, 2006 (advertised 4/12/2006 and 4/19/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683
Summer Food Program, 2006 (breakfasts, lunches) — Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties — Division of Recreation — per Ord. 845-05 —
bid due April 27, 2006 (advertised 4/12/2006 and 4/19/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682
Technology and Security Center Project No. 536 (re-bid) — Department of Public
Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 758-04 — bid due April 28, 2006
(advertised 4/5/2006 and 4/12/2006). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682
Turnout clothing — Department of Public Safety — Division of Fire — per C.O. Sec. 135.06 —
bid due April 26, 2006 (advertised 4/5/2006 and 4/12/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682

City Planning Commission
Cleveland Public Art — contract — City’s public art program (O 653-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669
Seymour Ave. & Erin Ave. (lands bounded by) — change the Use Districts —
Local Retail Business District (O 657-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670

Cleveland Clinic Foundation
E. 96th St. — permit — right-of-way — Sloped walk exit ramp, sheet piling, a
building corner, below-grade areaways (O 648-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 667

Cleveland Public Power
AutoCAP computer program upgrades — purchase (O 191-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
Flats East Bank Community Plan area — City’s payment — various utility and infrastructure
improvements (O 655-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670
Low sulfur #2 dyed diesel fuel oil — purchase (O 296-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684

Codified Ordinances
Parking infraction — impoundment of vehicles — continuous violation tickets —
new Sec. 405.023, amend Sects. 405.02, 443.19, 459.01, 459.03, 459.05, 459.06, 459.08,
and 459.11 (O 645-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 663
Reimbursement of Expenses for Members of Council — amend Sect. 173.071
(O 621-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 687
Water service installation and water main repairs — amend Sec. 531.01 — repeal Sec.
531.50 (O 246-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674

Community Development
Case Western Reserve University — agreement — Case Western Reserve
University National Youth Sports Program — Ward 6 NEF (O 623-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 687
Cleveland Restoration Society — agreement — Heritage Home Preservation Program —
Wards 1, 11, 16, 18, 19 and 21 NEF (O 626-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688
E. 87 St. — land reutilization program — Charles Hardin (O 165-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674
E. 87 St. — land reutilization program — Lonnie Harris and Geneva Harris
(O 166-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674
E. 93 St. — land reutilization program — Walter J. Worsham (O 167-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674
Lexington Ave. — land reutilization program — Thomas Albert Ruffin and
Pauline Ruffin (O 652-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669
Tremont West Development Corporation — agreement — Student Theatre
Enrichment Program — amend Ord. 1314-05 — Ward 13 NEF
(O 622-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 687
Tremont West Development Corporation — agreement — Student Theatre
Enrichment Program — repeal Ord Nos. 1546-05 & 1793-05 — Ward 13 NEF
(O 625-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688

693

The City Record

42

April 12, 2006

Concession Agreements
Automatic Teller Machines — installation, operation, maintenance —
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport
(O 2137-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674
On-site terminal advertising — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(O 2136-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674
Self-service baggage cart system — operation — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (O 2138-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674

Condolences
Lee Poole, Ora (R 681-06). . . . .
Minor, Gary (R 682-06) . . . . . . .
Mitchell, Clarence (R 678-06) .
Previte, Larry (R 680-06) . . . . .
Roth, David (R 684-06) . . . . . . .
Scott, Emmitt (R 683-06) . . . . .
Stanley, Mildred (R 677-06) . . .
Williams, Eddie G. (R 679-06).

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

656
656
656
656
656
656
656
656

Congratulations
Bostwick, David (R 685-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656
Shega, Joseph & Dolores (R 686-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

Contracts
Cleveland Public Art — City’s public art program — City Planning (O 653-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Football program — Cleveland Municipal Football Association (O 458-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Greater Cleveland Partnership — reimbursement — Superior Avenue banner
Public Art Project (O 497-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
HLC Group — diversity training — Fire Division (O 314-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
RescueNet EMS Pro — maintenance & upgrades — Zoll Data Systems — Division of Emergency
Medical Service (O 650-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stryker Medical — patient cots and stairs chairs on rescue squads — Division of Emergency
Medical Service (O 651-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 686
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 668
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669

Donation
Mercury Mariner Hybrid vehicle 2006 — Ford Motor Company — Police Division
(O 453-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685
Microscope glove box — McCrone Microscopes & Accessories — Fire Division
(O 452-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685

Economic Development Department
Economic Development Initiative Grant funds — extend the term of lease —
MidTown Associates, LLC (O 507-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675

Emergency Medical Service (EMS)
Medical supplies and equipment — purchase (O 649-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 668
RescueNet EMS Pro — maintenance & upgrades — Zoll Data Systems — contract
(O 650-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 668
Stryker Medical — patient cots and stairs chairs on rescue squads — contract
(O 651-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669

Finance Department
ACL Services Ltd. — contracts — training courses — ACL105, ACL291, and Desktop Edition
software (O 599-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Airport System Revenue Refunding Bonds — issuance and sale — refund outstanding airport
system revenue bonds (O 292-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Building materials and used paving bricks — purchase — various divisions
(O 601-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flats East Bank Community Plan area — City’s payment — public improvements
(O 656-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General Obligation Refunding Bonds — issuance and sale — refund (O 291-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Janitorial supplies and equipment — purchase — various divisions (O 602-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

694

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 676

April 12, 2006

The City Record

43

Moral Claims — payment (O 646-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 666
Pillsbury, Winthrop, Shaw, Pittman LLP — agreement — federal lobbying services
(O 605-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 687
Plumbing supplies and equipment — purchase — various divisions (O 603-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 676
Ready mix concrete — purchase — various divisions (O 604-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 676
Scanning services — purchase — Division of Taxation (O 647-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 667

Fire Division
HLC Group — contract — diversity training (O 314-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
Microscope glove box — donation — McCrone Microscopes & Accessories
(O 452-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685
Retirement dates — extend — various police and fire personnel (O 2368-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 673

Flats District
Utility and infrastructure improvements- City’s payment — Flats East Bank
Community Plan area (O 655-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670
Public Improvements — City’s payment — Flats East Bank Community Plan area
(O 656-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670

Grants
Safe Communities, DUI Prevention Task Force Program — University Hospitals
(O 2206-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683

Halloran Park
Security services — outdoor pools (O 456-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685

Land Bank Reutilization Program
E. 87 St. — Charles Hardin (O 165-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674
E. 87 St. — Lonnie Harris and Geneva Harris (O 166-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674
E. 93 St. — Walter J. Worsham (O 167-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674
Lexington Ave. — Thomas Albert Ruffin and Pauline Ruffin (O 652-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669

Leases
Economic Development Initiative Grant funds — extend the term of lease —
MidTown Associates, LLC (O 507-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675

Liquor Permits
Bridge Ave., 2927 — objection — withdraw (Ward 13) (R 659-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 672
Cedar Ave., 7002 — new (Ward 5) (F 667-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
Clark Ave., 2704 — transfer (Ward 14) (F 673-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
Clifton Blvd., 10423-25-27 — transfer (Ward 18) (F 674-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656
E. 17th St., 1740 — objection — withdraw (Ward 13) (R 658-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 672
E. 49th St., 1311 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 671-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
Euclid Ave., 2121 — transfer (Wad 14) (F 673-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
Fulton Rd., 4260 — new (Ward 16) (F 665-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
Meyer Ave., 3347 — objection — withdraw (Ward 14) (R 661-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 673
N. Marginal Rd., 4915 — new (Ward 13) (F 664-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
St. Clair Ave., 13302 — new (Ward 10) (F 666-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
St. Clair Ave., 15914 — transfer (Ward 11) (F 668-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
St. Clair Ave., 5238 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 669-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
Superior Ave., 3700 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 675-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656
W. 25th St., 2132 — objection — withdraw (Ward 14) (R 660-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 673
W. 25th St., 3203 — transfer (Ward 14) (F 670-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655

Lonnie Burten Recreation Center
Security Services — Outdoor pools (O 456-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685

Moral Claim
Payment (O 646-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 666

695

The City Record

44

April 12, 2006

Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Ingersoll Rand air compressor parts — Air Power of Ohio Company (O 450-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Cleveland Restoration Society — agreement — Heritage Home Preservation
Program — Wards 1, 11, 16, 18, 19 and 21 (O 626-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sims Raiders Youth Organization — contract — Youth Football Program —
amend Ord. 1199-05 — Ward 10 & 11 (O 624-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tremont West Development Corporation — agreement — Student Theatre
Enrichment Program — amend Ord. 1314-05 — Ward 13 (O 622-06) . . . . . .
Tremont West Development Corporation — agreement — Student Theatre
Enrichment Program — repeal Ord Nos. 1546-05 & 1793-05 — Ward 13
(O 625-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 687
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 687

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688

Parking
Parking infraction — impoundment of vehicles — continuous violation tickets — new Sec.
405.023, amend Sects. 405.02, 443.19, 459.01, 459.03, 459.05, 459.06, 459.08, and
459.11 (O 645-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 663

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Eats Cuyahoga County Genealogical Society — computer hardware and services —
donation (O 2073-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Football program — Cleveland Municipal Football Association — contract (O 458-06) .
Lonnie Burten Recreation Center and Halloran Park — outdoor pools —
security services — Recreation Division (O 456-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Neighborhood Leadership Institute — agreement — educational, recreational and
cultural programs — various school buildings — evening hours (O 506-06). . . . . . .
Pool chemicals — purchase — Recreation Division (O 457-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sims Raiders Youth Organization — contract — Youth Football Program —
amend Ord. 1199-05 — Ward 10 & 11 NEF (O 624-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ward 11 recreational services — Salvation Army — contract — Recreation Division
(O 459-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 686
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 686
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 687
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 686

Peddlers
Lightner, Cyndi — (Ward 5) (O 654-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 671

Permits
Hermes 10 Miler — Hermes Sports (O 662-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 672
Historic Warehouse District Development Corp., The — public right-of-way —
Hanging Flower Baskets (O 376-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685

Personnel Department
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO, Local 39 — Fact-Finder’s
findings and recommendations — rejected (R 628-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683

Plats
Riverside Park States Subdivision Plat (Ward 20) (F 676-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

Police Division
Mercury Mariner Hybrid vehicle 2006 — donation — Ford Motor Company (O 453-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685
Retirement dates — extend — various police and fire personnel (O 2368-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 673

Port Control Department
Automatic Teller Machines — installation, operation, maintenance —
Concession Agreements — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
and Burke Lakefront Airport (O 2137-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674
On-site terminal advertising — Concession Agreements — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (O 2136-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674
Self-service baggage cart system — operation — concession agreement —
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 2138-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674

696

April 12, 2006

The City Record

45

Recognition
Tartan Day (R 687-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

Recreation Division
Lonnie Burten Recreation Center and Halloran Park — outdoor pools — security
services (O 456-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685
Pool chemicals — purchase (O 457-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685
Ward 11 recreational services — Salvation Army — contract (O 459-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 686

Right-of-Way
Cleveland Clinic Foundation — permit — right-of-way — Sloped walk exit ramp,
sheet piling, a building corner, below-grade areaways — E. 96th St.
(O 648-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 667
Historic Warehouse District Development Corp., The — permit — public right-of-way —
Hanging Flower Baskets (O 376-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685

Safety Department
HLC Group — contract — diversity training — Fire Division (O 314-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
Microscope glove box — donation — McCrone Microscopes & Accessories —
Fire Division (O 452-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685
Medical supplies and equipment — purchase — Division of Emergency Medical Service
(O 649-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 668
Mercury Mariner Hybrid vehicle 2006- donation — Ford Motor Company — Police Division
(O 453-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685
Retirement dates — extend — various police and fire personnel (O 2368-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 673
RescueNet EMS Pro — maintenance & upgrades — Zoll Data Systems — contract —
Division of Emergency Medical Service (O 650-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 668
Safe Communities, DUI Prevention Task Force Program — grant — University Hospitals
(O 2206-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683
Stryker Medical — patient cots and stairs chairs on rescue squads — Division of Emergency
Medical Service (O 651-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669

Service Department
Cleveland Clinic Foundation — permit — right-of-way — Sloped walk exit ramp,
sheet piling, a building corner, below-grade areaways — E. 96th St.
(O 648-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 667
Flats East Bank Community Plan area — City’s payment — various utility and
infrastructure improvements (O 655-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670
Fulton Road Bridge — ODOT Infrastructure Bank Loan — apply & accept
(O 569-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 686
Greater Cleveland Partnership — reimbursement — Superior Avenue banner Public Art Project
(O 497-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675
Historic Warehouse District Development Corp., The — permit — public right-of-way —
Hanging Flower Baskets (O 376-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685
Ingersoll Rand air compressor parts — Air Power of Ohio Company — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance (O 450-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675
Mt. Olive Missionary Baptist Church — banner — church’s 6th Annual Juneteenth Celebration
(O 663-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 672
Traffic signal and pavement marking equipment — purchase — Division of Traffic
Engineering (O 449-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675
Ward 10 Club — banner — Pancake Breakfast and Rummage Sale (O 627-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688
Wirtgen milling machine and equipment parts — The McLean Co. — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance (O 451-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675

Taxation Division
Scanning services — purchase (O 647-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 667

Traffic Code
Parking infraction — impoundment of vehicles — continuous violation tickets — new Sec.
405.023, amend Sects. 405.02, 443.19, 459.01, 459.03, 459.05, 459.06, 459.08, and 459.11
(O 645-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 663

697

The City Record

46

April 12, 2006

Traffic Engineering Division
Traffic signal and pavement marking equipment — purchase (O 449-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675

Tremont West Development Corporation
Student Theatre Enrichment Program — agreement- amend Ord. 1314-05 —
Ward 13 NEF (O 622-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 687

Utilities Department
AutoCAP computer program upgrades — purchase — Cleveland Public Power
(O 191-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Electrical maintenance — materials, parts, supplies — various departments
(O 2134-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flats East Bank Community Plan area — City’s payment — various utility and
infrastructure improvements (O 655-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Low sulfur #2 dyed diesel fuel oil — purchase — Cleveland Public Power
(O 296-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water service installation and water main repairs — amend Sec. 531.01 —
repeal Sec. 531.50 (O 246-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674

Ward 01
Cleveland Restoration Society — agreement — Heritage Home Preservation
Program — Wards 1, 11, 16, 18, 19 and 21 NEF (O 626-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mitchell, Clarence — condolence (R 678-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stanley, Mildred — condolence (R 677-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Williams, Elder Monique — appreciation (R 689-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Williams, Sr., Pastor Tony L. — appreciation (R 688-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

688
656
656
656
656

Ward 02
Roth, David — condolence (R 684-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656
Scott, Emmitt — condolence (R 683-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656
Stanley, Mildred — condolence (R 677-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

Ward 03
Mt. Olive Missionary Baptist Church — banner — church’s 6th Annual
Juneteenth Celebration (O 663-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 672
Stanley, Mildred — condolence (R 677-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

Ward 04
Stanley, Mildred — condolence (R 677-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

Ward 05
Cedar Ave., 7002 — new — liquor permit (F 667-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
Lightner, Cyndi — peddling (O 654-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 671
Stanley, Mildred — condolence (R 677-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

Ward 06
Case Western Reserve University — agreement — Case Western
Reserve University National Youth Sports Program — NEF
(O 623-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 687
Cleveland Clinic Foundation — permit — right-of-way — Sloped walk exit ramp,
sheet piling, a building corner, below-grade areaways — E. 96th St. (O 648-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 667
Stanley, Mildred — condolence (R 677-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

Ward 07
E. 87 St. — land reutilization program — Charles Hardin (O 165-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 87 St. — land reutilization program — Lonnie Harris and Geneva Harris (O 166-06) .
E. 93 St. — land reutilization program — Walter J. Worsham (O 167-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lexington Ave. — land reutilization program — Thomas Albert Ruffin and
Pauline Ruffin (O 652-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stanley, Mildred — condolence (R 677-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

698

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

April 12, 2006

The City Record

47

Ward 08
Stanley, Mildred — condolence (R 677-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

Ward 09
Stanley, Mildred — condolence (R 677-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

Ward 10
Sims Raiders Youth Organization — contract — Youth Football Program —
amend Ord. 1199-05 — NEF (O 624-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 687
St. Clair Ave., 13302 — new — liquor permit (F 666-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
Stanley, Mildred — condolence (R 677-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656
Ward 10 Club — banner — Pancake Breakfast and Rummage Sale (O 627-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688
Williams, Eddie G. — condolence (R 679-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

Ward 11
Cleveland Restoration Society — agreement — Heritage Home Preservation Program —
Wards 1, 11, 16, 18, 19 and 21 NEF (O 626-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688
Lee Poole, Ora — condolence (R 681-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656
Previte, Larry — condolence (R 680-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656
Recreational services — Salvation Army — contract — Recreation Division
(O 459-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 686
Shega, Joseph & Dolores — congratulation (R 686-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656
Sims Raiders Youth Organization — contract — Youth Football Program —
amend Ord. 1199-05 — NEF (O 624-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 687
St. Clair Ave., 15914 — transfer — liquor permit (F 668-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
Stanley, Mildred — condolence (R 677-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656
Tartan Day — recognition (R 687-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

Ward 12
Stanley, Mildred — condolence (R 677-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

Ward 13
Bridge Ave., 2927 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 659-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 672
E. 17th St., 1740 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 658-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 672
E. 49th St., 1311 — transfer — liquor permit (F 671-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
Euclid Ave., 2121 — transfer — liquor permit (F 672-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
Flats East Bank Community Plan area — City’s payment — various utility and
infrastructure improvements (O 655-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670
Flats East Bank Community Plan area — City’s payment — public improvements
(O 656-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670
Historic Warehouse District Development Corp., The — permit — public right-of-way —
Hanging Flower Baskets (O 376-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685
Hermes 10 Miler — permit — Hermes Sports (O 662-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 672
N. Marginal Rd., 4915 — new — liquor permit (F 664-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
St. Clair Ave., 5238 — transfer — liquor permit (F 669-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
Stanley, Mildred — condolence (R 677-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656
Superior Ave., 3700 — transfer — liquor permit (F 675-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656
Tremont West Development Corporation — agreement — Student Theatre
Enrichment Program — amend Ord. 1314-05 — NEF (O 622-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 687
Tremont West Development Corporation — agreement — Student Theatre
Enrichment Program — repeal Ord Nos. 1546-05 & 1793-05 — NEF
(O 625-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688

Ward 14
Clark Ave., 2704 — transfer — liquor permit (F 673-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
Meyer Ave., 3347 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 661-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 673
Seymour Ave. & Erin Ave. (lands bounded by) — change the Use Districts —
Local Retail Business District (O 657-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670
Stanley, Mildred — condolence (R 677-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656
W. 25th St., 2132 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 660-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 673

699

The City Record

48

April 12, 2006

Ward 15
Stanley, Mildred — condolence (R 677-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

Ward 16
Cleveland Restoration Society — agreement — Heritage Home Preservation
Program — Wards 1, 11, 16, 18, 19 and 21 NEF (O 626-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688
Stanley, Mildred — condolence (R 677-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

Ward 17
Minor, Gary — condolence (R 682-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656
Stanley, Mildred — condolence (R 677-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

Ward 18
Cleveland Restoration Society — agreement — Heritage Home
Preservation Program — Wards 1, 11, 16, 18, 19 and 21 NEF
(O 626-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688
Clifton Blvd., 10423-25-27 — transfer — liquor permit (F 674-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656
Roth, David — condolence (R 684-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656
Stanley, Mildred — condolence (R 677-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656
Tartan Day — recognition (R 687-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

Ward 19
Cleveland Restoration Society — agreement — Heritage Home
Preservation Program — Wards 1, 11, 16, 18, 19 and 21 NEF
(O 626-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688
Stanley, Mildred — condolence (R 677-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

Ward 20
Bostwick, David — congratulation (R 685-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656
Riverside Park States Subdivision Plat (F 676-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656
Roth, David — condolence (R 684-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656
Stanley, Mildred — condolence (R 677-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

Ward 21
Cleveland Restoration Society — agreement — Heritage Home Preservation
Program — Wards 1, 11, 16, 18, 19 and 21 NEF (O 626-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688
Stanley, Mildred — condolence (R 677-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 656

Water Division
Flats East Bank Community Plan area — City’s payment — various utility
and infrastructure improvements (O 655-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670
Water service installation and water main repairs — amend Sec. 531.01 —
repeal Sec. 531.50 (O 246-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674

Zoning
Seymour Ave. & Erin Ave. (lands bounded by) — change the Use Districts —
Local Retail Business District (O 657-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670

700

