The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

April the Twenty-Sixth, Two Thousand and Six

Frank G. Jackson
Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Emily Lipovan
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Nina Turner
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Joe Cimperman
Joseph Santiago
Brian J. Cummins
Kevin J. Kelley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
18
18
19
19
20
20
20
21
22
34
35

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Nina Turner..................................................16204 Sunny Glen Avenue
44128
Robert J. White .................................................9703 Cardwell Avenue
44105
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Patricia J. Britt........................................................12402 Britton Drive
44120
Fannie M. Lewis.........................................................7416 Star Avenue
44103
Sabra Pierce Scott.................................................1136 East 98th Street
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Roosevelt Coats ....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
44112
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Joe Cimperman....................................................3053 West 12th Street
44113
Joseph Santiago ...................................................3169 West 14th Street
44109
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Kevin J. Kelley ..............................................6608 Woodhaven Avenue
44144
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Michael A. Dolan ...............................................16519 West Park Road
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Emily Lipovan, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Michael A. House, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Debra Linn Talley, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Julius Ciaccia, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Interim Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNELAND HUMAN RESOURCES – Trudy Hutchinson, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – ______________, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Angel Guzman, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James
Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; ___________, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director ____________, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director _______________, Law Director
Robert J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Rev. Sam Edward Small, Council Member Joe Cimperman.
FAIR CAMPAIGN FINANCE COMMISSION – Chris Warren, C. Ellen Connally, Hillary S.
Taylor.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council
Member ____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; _________, Vice Chair; Daniel Conway, Doris
Honsa, Lisa Camacho.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.

DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – John Mok, Interim Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner

CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue

POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Interim Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Anjou Parekh, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – _____________, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley; Councilman Nina Turner.

CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – India Pierce Lee, Chair;
Laura M. Noble, Vice Chair; Robert Brown, Thomas Coffey, Jennifer Coleman, Lee,
Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, Ari Maron, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Council Member Joe
Cimperman, Robert Jackimowicz; Robert Keiser, Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
Judge Emanuella Groves
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
Judge Anita Laster Mays
Judge Lauren C. Moore
Judge Charles Patton, Jr.
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
Judge Michael Ryan
Judge Angela R. Stokes
Judge Joan Synenberg
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
Judge Joseph J. Zone

Courtroom
14B
15A
13A
13D
14C
14A
12B
13B
12A
15C
13C
12C
14D

Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Michael E. Flanagan – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak – Bailiff;
Regina Daniel – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 2006

Vol. 93

No. 4820

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, APRIL 24, 2006
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available

Westbrook, Vice Chair; Brancatelli,
Britt, Cleveland, Dolan, Turner.

MOTION

10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Britt, Coats, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek, Santiago, Turner.

On the motion of Council Member
Cummins, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting were dispensed with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member
Kelley.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

online at

www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

EMILY LIPOVAN
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2006-2009
MONDAY—Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property & Recreation Committee: Johnson, Chair; White, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek,
Turner.
9:30 A.M. — Health & Human Services Committee: Britt, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair; Conwell, Kelley,
Reed, Santiago, Westbrook.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Brady, Chair; Turner, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Johnson,
Polensek, Reed, Santiago, White.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Dolan, Vice
Chair; Cimperman, Lewis, Pierce
Scott, Reed, White.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Britt,
Coats, Conwell, Pierce Scott, Westbrook, White, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Pierce
Scott, Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair;
Brady, Cimperman, Cummins, Coats,
Lewis, Westbrook. Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
Lewis, Chair; Santiago, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Coats, Conwell, Johnson, Turner.
WEDNESDAY—Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation & Transportation Committee: Kelley, Chair;

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Dolan,
Kelley, Polensek, Santiago, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chair, Westbrook, Vice Chair, Conwell, Dolan,
Lewis, Reed, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland,
Kelley,
Pierce
Scott,
Polensek.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Sweeney, Chair; Britt, Kelley,
Pierce Scott, Santiago, Westbrook,
White.

FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 767-06.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 5337947 — Lucic Enterprises, Inc., d.b.a. Lucic’s, 1204 Old
River Road, mezzanine & patio.
(Ward 13). Received.
File No. 768-06.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 0251410 — ARA Enterprise, Inc., d.b.a. TKS Tavern, first
floor and basement and patio, 6524
St. Clair Avenue. (Ward 13). Received.

Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats, Chair; Pierce Scott, Kelley,
Sweeney, Westbrook.

File No. 769-06.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 2528548 — E. 85791 Tavern,
Inc., 787-91 East 185th Street, first
floor and basement. (Ward 11).
Received.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS

STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTANCE

CITY COUNCIL
______________
Estabrook Recreation Center
4125 Fulton Road
Ward 16
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, April 24, 2006
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Britt, Cimperman, Cleveland, Coats, Cummins, Johnson, Kelley, Lewis, Polensek, Reed, Santiago, Pierce Scott, Sweeney, Turner,
Westbrook, White and Zone.
Also present were Ken Silliman,
Chief of Staff; Darnell Brown, Chief
Operating Officer; Valarie J. McCall,
Chief of Government Affairs; Maureen Harper, Chief of Communications; Michael A. House, Press Secretary; Debra Linn Talley, Director
of Equal Opportunity; Directors Triozzi, Dumas, Wasik, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Brown,
Griffin, Guzman, Interim Directors
Ciaccia, Carroll and Rybka.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
prayer was offered by Council Member Robert J. White. Pledge of Allegiance.

775

File No. 770-06.
From the Department of Public
Service — Contract No. 65242, Division of Purchasing Renovations.
Received.
File No. 771-06.
From the Department of Public
Service — Contract No. 65161, Renovations to the Glenville Waste Station. Received.
File No. 772-06.
From the Department of Public
Service — Contract No. 64352, Ridge
Road Overhead Door Replacement
Project. Received.
OATH OF OFFICE
File No. 773-06.
Kim Johnson — Commissioner of
Recreation. Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 750-06 — Joseph L. Fortuna.
Res. No. 774-06—Walter R. Willis,
Sr.

The City Record

4
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 775-06—Teresa M. Beasley.
Res. No. 776-06—Stacey R. Hall,
LISW.
COMMEMORATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 777-06—31st Anniversary
of the Fall of Saigon.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 734-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of uniform
clothing for security bailiffs, for the
Department of Finance, on behalf of
the Cleveland Municipal Court.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a one year period of
the necessary items of uniform
clothing for security bailiffs for
Cleveland Municipal Court, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Department of Finance,
on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal Court. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 146288)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

Ord. No. 735-06.
By
Council
Members
Johnson,
Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating, renovating, reconstructing or
otherwise improving various Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties facilities; authorizing the
Director of Public Service to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts to construct the improvement; and authorizing the director
to employ one or more professional
consultants necessary to design the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
rehabilitating,
renovating,
reconstructing or otherwise improving
various Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties facilities (the
“Improvement”), for the Division of
Architecture, Department of Public
Service, by one or more contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders after competitive
bidding for a gross price for the
Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts for the
making of the Improvement with
the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding for a
gross price for the Improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the Improvement may
be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
for a gross price. On request of the
Director the contractor shall furnish
a correct schedule of unit prices,
including profit and overhead, for
all items constituting units of the
Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to provide architectural and engineering services relating to the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Service from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Service for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract
or
contracts
authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Service, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 4. That the cost of the contracts authorized shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 01-700100-693000, 11 SF
006, 20 SF 362, 20 SF 371, 20 SF 381,
20 SF 391 and 20 SF 503, and from

776

April 26, 2006
the fund or funds to which are credited the proceeds from the sale of
future
general
obligation
bonds
which are designated for this purpose if the City sells such bonds,
and from any other funds appropriated for this purpose, Request No.
156197.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Parks, Property and Recreation, Public Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 736-06.
By Council Members Britt, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 240.01, 240.06, 240.08, 240.99,
365.02, 365.05, and 365.07 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as enacted by Ordinance No.
1027-04, passed August 11, 2004,
relating to lead hazards.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 240.01,
240.06, 240.08, 240.99, 365.02, 365.05,
and 365.07 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 1027-04,
passed August 11, 2004 are amended
as follows:
Section 240.01 Definitions
The definitions contained in Section 3742.01 of the Revised Code, and
OAC Rules 3701-30-01 and 3701-32-01
shall be applicable to this Chapter,
except as supplemented or otherwise
provided as follows:
(a) “Lead-Based Paint Free Certificate” means a certificate issued
under this chapter that the property
has been found to be lead-based
paint free. In order to obtain the certificate, the owner shall meet the
requirements of this Chapter for a
Lead-Based Paint Free Certificate.
(b) “Lead Maintenance Certificate” means a certificate that entitles a property to the legal presumption in Section 3742.41 of the
Revised Code that it does not contain a lead hazard and is not the
source of the lead poisoning of an
individual who resides or receives
care there. In order to obtain the
certificate, the owner or manager
shall meet the requirements of this
Chapter for a Lead Maintenance Certificate.
(c) “Commissioner” means the
Commissioner of the Division of the
Environment of the City of Cleveland
unless
otherwise
expressly
specified.
(d) “Department” means the City
of Cleveland Department of Public
Health unless otherwise expressly
specified.
(e) “Landlord” has the meaning
described in division (b) of Section
375.01 of the codified ordinances.
(f) “Lead Abatement” means a
measure or a set of measures,

April 26, 2006
designed for the single purpose of
permanently eliminating lead hazards. “Lead abatement” includes all
of the following:
(1) Removal of lead-based paint
and lead-contaminated dust;
(2) Permanent enclosure or encapsulation of lead-based paint;
(3) Replacement of surfaces or
fixtures painted with lead-based
paint;
(4) Removal or permanent covering of lead-contaminated soil;
(5) Preparation, cleanup, and disposal activities associated with lead
abatement.
“Lead abatement” does not include
any of the following:
(1) Preventive treatments performed under Section 3742.41 of the
Revised Code;
(2) Implementation of interim controls;
(3) Activities performed by a
property owner on a residential unit
to which both of the following
apply:
A. It is a freestanding single-family home used as the property
owner’s private residence;
B. No child under six years of age
who has had lead poisoning resides
in the unit.
(4) Renovation, remodeling, landscaping or other activities, when the
activities are not designed to permanently eliminate lead-based paint
hazards, but, instead, are designed
to repair, restore, or remodel a given
structure or dwelling, even though
these activities may incidentally
result in a reduction or elimination
of lead-based paint hazards. This
definition shall not be interpreted to
exempt
any
person
from
any
requirement under State or federal
law
regarding
lead
abatement,
including lead hazard control orders
or requirements for full abatement
of lead-based paint in certain federally-funded projects.
(g) “Lead hazard” means the presence of lead-based paint or lead-contaminated dust or lead-contaminated
soil
or
lead-contaminated
water
pipes at levels described as hazardous in Ohio Administrative Rule
3701-32-19 as that rule exists at the
time of passage of this section or as
it may be amended.
(h) “Rental agreement” has the
meaning described in division (c) of
Section 375.01 of the codified ordinances.
(i) “Target housing” means any
housing constructed prior to 1978,
except housing for the elderly or
persons with disabilities (unless
any child who is less than six years
of age resides or is expected to
reside in such housing) or any zerobedroom dwelling.
(j) “Tenant” has the meaning
described in division (c) of Section
375.01 of the codified ordinances.
(k) “Zero-bedroom dwelling” means
any residential dwelling in which
the living area is not separated
from the sleeping area. The term
includes efficiencies, studio apartments, dormitory housing, military
barracks, and rentals of individual
rooms in residential dwellings.
Section 240.06 Disclosures In Sale
or Lease of Target Housing Regarding Lead Hazards
(a) Disclosure in purchase or
lease of target housing.
(1) To ensure the application of
their requirements to the sale or
lease of target housing in the City
limits, the rules and regulations
that are promulgated by the Secre-

The City Record
tary and the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency
under the Residential Lead-Based
Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992,
Title 42 U.S.C. Section 4852d, and
their
successor
regulations,
are
adopted and incorporated into this
code as these rules and regulations
exist at the time of passage of this
chapter or as they may be amended.
Before a purchaser or tenant is
obligated under any contract to purchase or rental agreement to lease
the target housing, the seller or
lessor shall perform the activities
and provide the disclosures described in this section.
A. Provide the purchaser or tenant
with an EPA-approved lead hazard
information pamphlet;
B. Disclose to the purchaser in
writing in the sales contract, or tenant, both orally and in writing in
the rental agreement, all of the following: (i) the presence of any
known lead-based paint, or any
known lead hazards, in the housing;
(ii)
any
additional
information
available concerning the location of
the lead-based paint and/or lead
hazards, and the condition of the
painted services; (iii) whether the
property owner has a current Lead
Maintenance Certificate or LeadBased Paint Free Certificate and the
length of time of its coverage; (iv)
provide to the purchaser or tenant
any records or reports (including
notices or letters of violation) available pertaining to lead-based paint
hazards or lead hazards in the target housing, including regarding
common areas; and (v) records or
reports regarding other residential
dwellings in multi-family target
housing, provided that the information is part of an evaluation or
reduction of lead-based paint and/or
lead hazards in the target housing.
C. Permit the purchaser a 10-day
period (unless the parties mutually
agree in writing upon a different
period of time or to waive this
requirement) to conduct a lead risk
assessment or lead inspection for
the presence of lead paint or lead
hazards.
D. Include in the contract for sale
or rental agreement for lease the
Lead Warning Statement prescribed
in 40 C.F.R. Sec. 745.113.
E. Include in the contract for sale
or
rental
agreement
for
lease
acknowledgments
that
the
pamphlet, disclosures, 10-day period (if
required)
and
warning
required
were provided.
(2) Discovery of lead hazard prior
to the expiration of a lease. If the
owner of a residential unit learns of
the presence of lead paint prior to
the expiration of a lease, the owner
shall notify each tenant of the presence of lead paint within 10 days of
discovering its presence. In addition,
the owner shall provide each tenant
with a Lead Warning Statement and
the lead hazard information pamphlet, as prescribed by 42 USC Section 4852d.
(3) Compliance assurance. The
rules and regulations requiring the
agent, on behalf of the seller or
lessor, to assure compliance with
the requirements issued under the
Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992, Title 42
U.S.C. Section 4852d, and their successor regulations, are adopted and
incorporated into this code as these
rules and regulations exist at the
time of passage of this chapter or
as they may be amended, and apply
to an agent whenever a seller or

777

5
lessor has entered into a contract
with the agent for the purpose of
selling or leasing a unit of target
housing in the City limit. An agent
is defined as any party who enters
into a contract with a seller or
lessor, for the purpose of selling or
leasing pre-1978 housing.
(b) Penalties for Violations.
(1) Criminal Penalty. Any person
who knowingly fails to comply with
a provision of this section shall be
subject to the penalties provided in
Section 240.99 of the codified ordinances.
(2) The Director of Public Health
or Commissioner is authorized to
take lawful action as may be necessary to enforce this section or to
enjoin any violation of it.
(3) Civil Liability. As provided in
the Federal Residential Hazard Reduction Act at 42 USC 4852d(b), any
person who violates any provision of
this section will be jointly and severally liable to the purchaser or
lessee in an amount equal to three
times
the
amount
of
damages
incurred by the individual. In addition, a tenant may recover from the
landlord, where actual damages are
not shown, minimal damages of not
less than $50.00, nor greater than
$500.00, together with reasonable
attorney’s fees.
(4) In any action brought for damages under this section, the appropriate court may award court costs
to the party commencing the action,
together with reasonable attorney
fees and any expert witness fees, if
that party prevails.
(5) A non-profit environmental
health or housing rights organization is authorized to bring an action
under division (b)(3) of this section
on behalf of an aggrieved individual or individual(s) for violations of
this section. Such organization may
recover its costs under the remedies
provided in divisions (b)(3) and
(b)(4) of this section if the organization demonstrates that it has
exerted
organizational
resources,
including staff time, to investigate
the alleged non-compliance with this
section.
(c) Validity of contracts for purchase and sale and liens. Nothing in
this section may affect the validity
or enforceability of any sale or contract for the purchase and sale or
lease of any interest in residential
real property or any loan, loan
agreement, mortgage, or lien made
or arising in connection with a mortgage loan, nor may anything in this
section create a defect in title.
Section 240.08 Lead-Based Paint
Free Certificates and Lead Maintenance Certificates; Fee
(a) The owner of a property constructed before 1978, which is used
as a residential unit, child day-care
facility, or school may obtain a
Lead-Based Paint Free Certificate
for that property. The certificate
entitles the owner, manager, or
agent of the property to a legal presumption that the property is lead
based-paint and lead-based paint
hazard free. The owner of the property shall comply with the provisions of this section applicable to
obtaining a Lead-Based Paint Free
Certificate to be entitled to that presumption. The legal presumption
established under this section applies to any enforcement action
under this Code and is rebuttable in
a court of law only on a showing of
clear and convincing evidence to the
contrary.

6
(b) The owner of a property constructed before 1978, which is used
as a residential unit, child day-care
facility, or school may obtain a
Lead Maintenance Certificate. The
certificate entitles the owner, manager, or agent of the property to a
legal presumption that the property does not contain a lead-based
paint hazard and is not the source
of the lead poisoning of an individual who resides in the unit or
receives child-care or education at
the facility or school. The owner of
the property shall comply with the
provisions of this section applicable
to obtaining a Lead Maintenance
Certificate to be entitled to that
presumption. The legal presumption
established
under
this
section
applies to any enforcement action
under this Code and is rebuttable
in a court of law only on a showing of clear and convincing evidence to the contrary.
(c) To obtain a Lead-Based Paint
Free Certificate, the owner of the
property shall comply with the following provisions:
(1) A licensed lead inspector shall
inspect the property for which the
owner is seeking a Lead-Based
Paint Free Certificate. The licensed
lead inspector shall be certified
under the Federal certification program or under a federally accredited State or tribal certification program and shall issue a report. The
inspector shall certify in the report
that the property is free of leadbased paint.
(2) The owner or manager of the
unit, facility, or school shall submit
an application for a Lead-Based
Paint Free Certificate, with the City
Division of Licenses and Assessments that contains a copy of the
report described in division (c)(1)
of Section 240.08 and pay a filing of
$10.00 per unit to the City Division
of Licenses and Assessments.
(3) To maintain the Lead-Based
Paint Free Certificate, a seller,
lessor, or agent of a property that
is being sold or leased, shall continue to meet the disclosure requirements of Section 240.06 of the codified ordinances and, as part of that
sections disclosure requirements in
divisions (a)(i), (b)(ii), (b)(iii) and
(b)(v) of Section 240.06, disclose
whether a certificate covers the
property.
(4) Conflict of Interest. A LeadBased Paint Free Certificate and a
Lead Maintenance Certificate is not
valid unless the inspector certifying
that the property that is certified
meets the following criteria:
A. The inspector is not the property owner or an immediate family
member, agent or employee of the
property owner.
B. The inspector is not part of a
company or associated with a company that is directly or beneficially
owned, controlled or managed by
the property owner, or by an immediate
family
member,
agent
or
employee of the property owner.
C. The inspector is not a person
hired by or under contract with the
property owner to manage or maintain the property owner’s real property as directed by the property
owner.
D. The inspector is not a person
who has been authorized by the
property owner to manage or maintain the property owner’s real property on the property owner’s behalf.
E. The inspector is not a person
who has a financial interest in the
laboratory results of the sampling

The City Record
or testing or in the determination of
whether the property meets the
applicable property standards.
(5) If the owner or manager of a
residential unit uses the unit as a
rental dwelling, then a copy of the
Lead-Based Paint Free Certificate,
shall be submitted with the application for a certificate of rental registration that is required by Section
365.02 of the codified ordinances.
(d) To obtain a Lead Maintenance
Certificate, the owner of the property shall comply with the following
provisions:
(1) The owner or manager of the
unit, facility, or school shall successfully complete both of the preventive treatments described in divisions (A)(1) and (2) of Section
3742.41 of the Revised Code. If the
lead hazards are in historic property, the owner or manager may meet
the requirements of division (B) of
Section 3742.41 of the Revised Code
instead.
(2) The owner or manager of the
unit, facility, or school shall file
annually with the City Division of
Licenses and Assessments an application for a Lead Maintenance Certificate with an notarized affidavit
by an owner or manager of the property certifying that that owner or
manager has successfully completed
the requirements in division (d)(1)
of Section 240.08. In addition, the
owner or manger shall pay a filing
fee of $10.00 per unit to the City
Division of Licenses and Assessments.
(3) To maintain the Lead Maintenance Certificate, a seller, lessor, or
agent of a property that is being
sold or leased, shall continue to
meet the disclosure requirements of
Section 240.06 of the codified ordinances and, as part of that section’s
disclosure requirements in divisions
(a)(i), (b)(ii), (b)(iii) and (b)(v) of
Section 240.06, disclose whether a
certificate covers the property.
(4) If the owner or manager of a
residential unit uses the unit as a
rental dwelling, then a copy of the
Lead Maintenance Certificate shall
be submitted with the application
for a certificate of rental registration that is required by Section
365.02 of the codified ordinances.
(e) Information Required In Application. The application for a Lead
Maintenance Certificate shall contain the following information:
A. The street address or other
identifying characteristics of the
building or other structure;
B. The name, address, and telephone number of the owner or owners of the premises. In the case of
a partnership, the names of all general partners;
C. If the record owner is a corporation, the names, addresses and
telephone numbers of the current
statutory agent and all corporate
officers of that corporation.
D. The name, address, and telephone number of the managing
agent of the premises, if any.
E. The name, address of the residential unit (including apartment or
room number), residential structure,
child day-care facility, or school,
and telephone number of the superintendent, custodian or other individual employed by the owner or
managing agent to provide regular
maintenance services, if any.
F. The use district, ward, and census tract, in which the structure is
located.
G. The use and occupancy authorized.

778

April 26, 2006
H. The appropriate designation as
lead-safe maintained or lead free,
and the effective and expiration
dates.
(f) Transfer of Certificate. When
a person obtains both equitable title
and legal possession of a property
covered by a Lead Maintenance Certificate any certificate issued to the
previous
property
owner
is
no
longer in effect unless the following
requirements are met:
(1) The new property owner submits a signed and dated written
notice of the change in ownership of
the property to the Department of
Building and Housing within 60
days after the date on which the
new property owner obtains both
equitable title and legal possession
of property covered by the certificate. The property owner’s name
and mailing address shall be provided in the notice.
(2) The property owner pays the
fee of $25.00 for an amended certificate.
(3) The new property owner complies with the conditions for maintaining the certificate under this
Chapter.
(g) Expiration dates of Certificates. A Lead-Based Paint Free Certificate is valid until revoked, which
shall be stated on each Lead-Based
Paint Free Certificate. A Lead Maintenance Certificate is valid for a
period of one year from the date
that it is issued, which shall be stated on each Lead Maintenance Certificate.
(h) Conditions for Maintaining A
Lead Maintenance Certificate. To
maintain a Lead Maintenance Certificate, a property owner shall
maintain compliance with all standards for obtaining that certificate
and all laws applicable to lead hazards described in this chapter. Failure to maintain compliance will
result in the revocation of the Lead
Maintenance
Certificate
by
the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing or the Director of
the Department of Public Health.
(i) The City of Cleveland is enacting and enforcing the provisions of
this Chapter only to promote the
public health, safety and welfare
and for obligations imposed upon it
by the State of Ohio under delegation by the Ohio Department of
Health. It is not assuming, nor is it
imposing on its officers and employees, an obligation for breach of
which it is liable in money damages
to any person who claims that the
breach proximately caused injury.
In addition, nothing in this Chapter
may be interpreted to limit the City
of Cleveland’s statutory immunity
afforded by Chapter 2744 of the
Revised Code.
Section 240.99 Penalties
(a) Whoever violates division (f)
of Section 240.03 is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(b) Whoever violates any provision of Chapter 240 for which no
other penalty is provided or rule or
regulation or order under this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree. Except for a violation of division (f) of Section 240.03,
each day during which noncompliance or a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(c)
As
provided
by
Sections
2901.23 and 2929.31 of the Revised
Code organizations convicted of an
offense are guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree.

April 26, 2006
Section 365.02 Issuance of Certificate of Rental Registration; Revocation
(a) Application for a certificate of
rental registration required by the
provisions of this Housing Code
shall be made by supplying the
information and data necessary to
determine the owner, agent and/or
person in charge and to determine
compliance with applicable laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations
for the existing use or occupancy, or
the intended use of occupancy, on
forms supplied by the Director of
Building and Housing. Information
to be supplied on an application
shall include, but is not limited to,
the following:
(1) The name, address, social
security number or federal tax identification
number
and
telephone
number of the owner or owners of
the premises. In the case of a natural person or persons, the date or
dates of birth. In the case of a partnership, the names, addresses, social
security numbers, dates of birth and
telephone numbers of all general
partners. In the cases of a corporation, the names, addresses, social
security numbers, dates of birth and
telephone numbers of the current
statutory agent and all corporate
officers of the corporation. The
address for corporations and partnerships shall be the principal place
of business and the address for persons shall be the home address.
(2) The name, address, social
security number or federal tax identification
number
and
telephone
number of the managing agent of
the premises, if any. In the case of
a natural person or persons, the date
or dates of birth. In the case of a
partnership, the names, addresses,
social security numbers, dates of
birth and telephone numbers of the
current statutory agent and all corporate officers of the corporation.
The address for corporations and
partnerships shall be the principal
place of business and the address
for persons shall be the home
address.
(3) For a property to be covered
by Lead Maintenance Certificate or
Lead-Based Paint Free Certificate,
the owner shall comply with the provisions in Section 240.08 of the codified ordinances to obtain such a
certificate and a copy of the Lead
Maintenance Certificate or LeadBased Paint Free Certificate shall
also be submitted with the application for a certificate of rental registration.
The Director may require the submission of an affidavit stating such
information and he may cause a
general inspection of the structure
or premises to be made.
(b) If the owner of a residential
unit resides or is located outside of
Cuyahoga County, the owner shall
designate in his application the
name, current address, social security number, date of birth and telephone number of an agent who is a
natural person and who resides
within Cuyahoga County, and who
is authorized by the owner to
receive service of a Notice of Violation on the owner’s behalf. An agent
designated under this section shall
be of sound mind and at least eighteen years of age. It is the owner’s
obligation to notify the Director of
Building and Housing, in writing, of
any change in the name, address,
and/or telephone number of any
agent designated.

The City Record
(c) If it is found that a building
or other structure is in compliance
with the provisions of this Code and
all other applicable laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations, the Director of
Building and Housing shall issue a
certificate of rental registration containing the following:
(1) The street address or other
identifying characteristics of the
building or other structure.
(2) The name, address and telephone number of the owner or owners of the premises. In the case of
a partnership, the names of all general partners.
(3) If the record owner is a corporation, the names, addresses and
telephone numbers of the current
statutory agent and all corporate
officers of said that corporation.
(4) The name, address and telephone number of the managing
agent of the premises, if any.
(5) The name, address (including
the dwelling unit, apartment or room
number) and telephone number of
the
superintendent,
custodian
or
other individual employed by the
owner or managing agent to provide
regular maintenance services, if any.
(6) The name, address and telephone number of an individual representative of the owner or managing agent who may be reached or
contacted at any time in the event
of
an
emergency
affecting
the
premises of any unit of dwelling
place in that structure, including
such emergencies as the failure of
a utility system or service, and who
has the authority to make emergency
decisions
concerning
the
building including its repairs or
expenditures.
(7) The use district, ward, and
census tract in which the structure
is located.
(8) The use and occupancy authorized.
(9) That the building or other
structure was found to be in compliance with the applicable provisions of this code and all other
applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations.
(10) Whether a Lead Maintenance
Certificate or Lead-Based Paint Free
Certificate was issued and the expiration date of either of those certificates.
The rental registration certificate
shall not be valid beyond the last
day of the twelfth month following
the date of issuance, unless it has
been renewed prior to that day and
it was renewed in the same manner
required for issuance of the original
certificate of rental registration.
(d) Copies of all applications and
certificates of rental registration
shall be kept on file by the Director of Building and Housing as a
pubic record, except those portions
that are prohibited from being released by state or federal law.
(e) The Director of Building and
Housing has the power to revoke a
certificate of rental registration if
any false statement is made by the
applicant in connection with the
issuance of such certificate, or if the
structure that was covered by it is
no longer in compliance with the
requirements of this Code, or if the
owner, agent or person in charge of
a structure refuses to comply with
any provision of this Code required
for the use, maintenance and/or
occupancy of a structure.
(f) An owner of a structure shall
give prompt notification of a change
in the name, address and/or telephone number of a corporation, part-

779

7
nership or person listed on a certificate of rental registration under division (c)(2) through (c)(7) of this
section to the Director of Building
and Housing within seven days after
the change occurs. If the owner fails
to
give
written
notification
as
required in this section, then the
Commissioner may revoke the certificates of rental registration until
such time that the owner has provided in writing the changed name,
address and/or telephone number.
In addition to revocation of the
certificate of rental registration,
whoever violates division (f) of this
section shall be fined not more than
two hundred dollars. Each threemonth period during which the violation continues is a separate offense.
Section 365.05 Fees
(a) An application for a certificate of rental registration shall be
accompanied by a nonrefundable fee
calculated
under
the
following
schedule:
For Each Unit:
(1) $35.00 Rental Registration Fee.
(2) $5.00 Lead Inspection Fee.
A. This $5.00 fee is waived if the
structure was constructed on or
after 1978.
B. This $5.00 fee is waived if a
Lead
Maintenance
Certificate
or
Lead-Based Paint Free Certificate
covers the structure for the period of
the certificate of rental registration.
(b) No fee shall be charged for a
dwelling
unit
occupied
by
the
owner.
(c) No fees shall be collected from
any one owner for all properties
owned by that owner within the
City in excess of $15,000 per calendar year per building.
(d) A certificate may be renewed
prior to expiration on application
and payment of the fee described
above. A certificate that has expired
may be renewed on payment of an
additional fee of fifty dollars if
renewed within one month of its
expiration and a further additional
fee of ten dollars per month thereafter.
Section 365.07 Lead Maintenance
Certificates and Lead-Based Paint
Free Certificate
(a) Definitions. Whenever a term
is used in this Chapter that pertains
to a Lead-Based Paint Free Certificate or Lead Maintenance Certificate, that term shall be given the
meaning it has in Chapter 240 of the
Codified Ordinances.
(b) A Lead Maintenance Certificate and a Lead-Based Paint Free
Certificate shall meet the requirements of Section 240.08 of the Codified Ordinances.
(c) The City of Cleveland is enacting and enforcing the provisions of
this Chapter regarding Lead Maintenance Certificates and Lead-Based
Paint Free Certificates only to promote the public health, safety and
welfare and for obligations imposed
upon the State of Ohio performed by
the City of Cleveland Department of
Public Health under delegation by
the State of Ohio. It is not assuming,
nor is it imposing on its officers and
employees, an obligation for breach
of which it is liable in money damages to any person who claims that
such
breach
proximately
caused
injury. In addition, nothing in this
Chapter may be interpreted to limit
the City of Cleveland’s statutory
immunity afforded by Chapter 2744
of the Revised Code.

The City Record

8
Section 2. That existing Sections
240.01, 240.06, 240.08, 240.99, 365.02,
365.05, and 365.07 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as enacted by Ordinance No. 1027-04,
passed August 11, 2004, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Health and Human Services, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 737-06.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of fuel, maintenance and aviation insurance for
two helicopters and their equipment,
for the Division of Police, Department of Public Safety, for a period
of one year with an option to renew
for one additional year.

April 26, 2006

Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one year of the necessary items of fuel, maintenance and
aviation insurance for two helicopters and their equipment, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, with one
(1) option exercisable by the Director of Public Safety, to renew for an
additional
one-year
consecutive
term, and cancelable on thirty days
written notice by the Director, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board

of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 145536)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committee on
Public Safety.

Ord. No. 738-06.
By Council Members Johnson, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 133.29 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003, relating to golf course fees.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 133.29 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
2393-02, passed February 3, 2003, is amended to read as follows:
Section 133.29
Golf Course Fees
The Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties shall be authorized to collect the following fees at municipal
golf courses, provided, however, that the fees regarding banquet room rental at Highland Park may be amended from time to time by the Board of Control:
(a) Regular rates. To qualify for City Residency rates, a player must reside in the City of Cleveland and verify
residency by providing photo identification and one other item determined by the Commissioner of Recreation to
be acceptable proof.
(1)

(2)

For City residents:

Monday-Friday

Weekends

9 holes
18 holes

$11.50
$22.00

$12.00
$23.00

Monday-Friday

Weekends

$12.50
$24.00

$13.00
$25.00

For non-City residents:
9 holes
18 holes

(b) Senior rates: (Applicable before 3:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and after 3:00 p.m. on weekends and holidays). To qualify for senior rates, a player must be at least sixty (60) years old and must provide positive photo
identification. To also qualify for City Residency rates, a player must reside in the City of Cleveland and verify residency and age by providing photo identification and one other item determined by the Commissioner of
Recreation to be acceptable proof.
(1)

Rate

For City residents:
9 holes
18 holes

(2)

$ 8.00
$15.00
Rate

For non-City residents:
9 holes
18 holes

$ 9.00
$17.00

780

The City Record

April 26, 2006

9

(c) 18-Hole Special Rate: (Applicable before 3:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and after 3:00 p.m. on weekends
and holidays). To qualify for the discounted green fee, a player would be required to rent a riding cart.
(1)

For City residents:

Rate

Regular
Senior
(2)

$18.00
$14.00
Rate

For non-City residents:
Regular
Senior

$20.00
$16.00

(d) Junior rates: (Applicable before 3:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and after 3:00 p.m. on weekends and
holidays). To qualify for junior rates, a player must be eighteen (18) years old or younger and must provide
positive photo identification. To also qualify for City Residency rates, a player must reside in the City of Cleveland
and verify residency and age by providing photo identification and one other item determined by the Commissioner
of Recreation to be acceptable proof.
(1)

Rate

For City residents:
9 holes
18 holes

(2)

Free
$ 8.00

For non-City residents:

Rate

9 holes
18 holes

$ 9.00
$17.00

(e) Winter rates: To qualify for City Residency rates, a player must reside in the City of Cleveland and verify
residency by providing photo identification and one other item determined by the Commissioner of Recreation to
be acceptable proof. The Commissioner of Recreation shall determine, based on weather and course conditions,
the dates during which winter rates shall be in effect.
(1)

Rate

For City residents:
9 holes
18 holes

(2)

$10.00
$19.00

For non-City residents:

Rate

9 holes
18 holes

$11.00
$21.00

(f) Additional 9 holes. Players under categories listed above who purchase a 9-hole ticket and wish to play an
additional 9 holes may do so by presenting the 9-hole ticket to the cashier within three hours from the time of
purchase and paying the additional amount required to equal the 18-hole rate.
(g) Tent Rental:
$230.00
(h) Banquet Room Rental at Highland Park.
(1) All rental rates for the banquet room shall be set by the Board of Control, which shall include rental
schedules for City residents and non-City residents.
(2) Rental rates shall be based on a four (4) hour period, which will include at no charge up to one (1)
hour before the event for set-up and up to one (1) hour after the event for clean-up. Any events, not including
the above-referenced set-up and clean-up times, exceeding the four (4) hour period, shall be charged for each
additional hour, or portion of an hour, used. Rental rates for the room, including additional charges for exceeding
the four (4) hour period, shall be set by the Board of Control. The banquet room closes at 12:00 a.m. on Friday
through Sunday and Holidays and at times determined by the Commissioner of Recreation on Monday through
Thursday. All events shall end one-half hour before the facility closes. The City’s Concessionaire shall be used
exclusively to provide food and beverages for all catered events, unless the Director approves the use of an
independent caterer. All beverages, including alcoholic beverages, shall be purchased from the City or the City’s
Concessionaire. Security is to be provided through the Village of Highland Hills Police Department and it is the
responsibility of the group renting the banquet room to arrange and pay for such security, as billed by the Village
of Highland Hills Police Department.
(3) Rental of the banquet room for golf outings. The golf outing must conclude one-half hour before the
golf course closing time. Events exceeding the four (4) hour rental period described above, are subject to additional
charges. If the event is to be catered by the City’s Concessionaire, the rental fee for the room for a maximum
period of four (4) hours, shall be included in the caterer’s per-person meal cost.
(4) Golf leagues established for the season at Highland or Seneca golf courses may use the banquet room
at no charge once per golf season. Events shall be held Monday through Friday and shall conclude by 5:00 p.m.
(i) Net proceeds from fees collected at the Highland and Seneca Golf Courses shall be expended for facility
improvements at the golf courses.
Section 2. That existing Section 133.29 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties, Finance, Law; Committees on Public Parks, Property
and Recreation, Legislation, Finance.

781

10
Ord. No. 739-06.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
Community
Development
Block Grant funds for expenses for
the Fair Housing Program; and
authorizing the Director of Community Relations to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies to implement this program.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 32 from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of Ninety Thousand Dollars
($90,000) from Fund No. 14 SF 032,
Request No. 149526, are appropriated
for costs of the Department of Community Relations incurred in Fund
13 following the appropriate federal
regulations associated with conducting the Fair Housing Program in
conjunction with the Community
Development Block Grant Program.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Relations is authorized
to enter into one or more contracts
with various non-profit and for-profit agencies providing services necessary to implement the Fair Housing Program.
Section 3. That the cost of the contracts authorized in this ordinance
shall not exceed $90,000, and shall
be paid from Fund No. 14 SF 032.
Section 4. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the
Director of Community Relations
and the Director of Community
Development shall enter into a memorandum of understanding for this
program.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 740-06.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
Community
Development
Block Grant funds for expenses of
the Senior Homeowners Assistance
Program (SHAP) and the CHORE
Program.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 32 from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the

The City Record
amount of One Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars ($160,000) from Fund
No. 14 SF 032, Request No. 149525,
are appropriated for costs of the
Department of Aging incurred in
Fund 13 associated with conducting
the Senior Homeowners Assistance
Program (“SHAP”) and the CHORE
Program in conjunction with the
Community Development Block Grant
Program.
Section 2. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the
Director of Aging and the Director
of Community Development shall
enter into a memorandum of understanding for this program.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Aging,
Community Development, Finance,
Law; Committees on Community and
Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 741-06.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into one or more contracts with Cleveland Action to Support Housing, Inc. (CASH) for administrative costs to implement housing
rehabilitation, new housing construction and commercial redevelopment
loan programs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with Cleveland Action to Support
Housing,
Inc.
(CASH)
for
administrative costs to implement
housing rehabilitation, new housing
construction and commercial redevelopment loan programs in the City
of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
under this program and utilize the
repayments for additional expenditures under this program and administrative expenses, and the repayments are appropriated for this purpose.
Section 3. That the aggregate cost
of the contracts referred to in Section 1 shall not exceed $127,000.00,
and shall be paid from Fund No. 14
SF 032, Request No. 149530.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

782

April 26, 2006
Ord. No. 742-06.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contracts
with one or more non-profit agencies
to operate a community garden program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into contracts with
one or more non-profit agencies to
operate a community gardening program.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall not exceed
$110,000.00, and shall be paid from
Fund No. 14 SF 032, Request No.
149527.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 743-06.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
Community
Development
Block Grant funds for anti-predatory lending and foreclosure prevention assistance; and authorizing the
Director of Consumer Affairs to
enter into one or more contracts
with various entities to provide
assistance to City residents.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Federal Home
Grant funds in the amount of
Three Hundred Thousand Dollars
($300,000) are appropriated for antipredatory lending and foreclosure
prevention assistance programs.
Section 2. That the Director of
Consumer Affairs is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with various organizations to provide counseling, training, marketing, program evaluation and other
services required for anti-predatory
lending and foreclosure prevention
assistance.
Section 3. That the aggregate cost
of the contracts shall not exceed
$300,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 19 SF 600, Request No.
149528.
Section 4. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the
Directors of Consumer Affairs and
Community Development shall enter
into a memorandum of understanding for this program.

April 26, 2006
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Consumer
Affairs, Community Development,
Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance.
Ord. No. 744-06.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli, Pierce Scott, Johnson,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 9, 10, and 12
of Ordinance No. 2152-03, passed January 5, 2004; and to supplement the
ordinance by adding new Sections
8a and 8b, relating to contracts
regarding
the
donation,
improvement, and reuse of the St.
Michael
Hospital
in
the
City’s
Broadway neighborhood.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 9, 10, and 12 of Ordinance No.
2152-03, passed January 5, 2004, are
amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation, and Properties to accept a
donation of money, and the real
property and improvements known
as St. Michael Hospital in the City’s
Broadway neighborhood; authorizing the Director to enter into a lease
agreement with UHS-Saint Michael
Hospital, Inc. (“UH”) to lease the
donated property to St. Michael for
a period not to exceed twelve
months; authorizing the Director to
apply for and accept grants and
gifts from public and private entities; authorizing the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties or
Community Development, as appropriate, to employ one or more professional consultants to conduct a
feasibility
study
regarding
the
future use of the donated property
and to provide professional services
necessary for the management and
reuse of the donated property; authorizing the appropriate Director to
enter into one or more contracts
with Partners Environmental consulting, Inc. for professional services necessary to perform environmental or engineering services; and
determining the method of making
the public improvement of rehabilitating, renovating, reconstructing,
or otherwise improving the donated
property, including but not limited
to, environmental remediation, site
improvements, and other improvements recommended by the feasibility study and accepted by the appropriate Director; and authorizing the
appropriate Director to enter into
one or more public improvement contracts
for
the
making
of
the
improvement;
and
authorizing
a
donation agreement between the
City and St. Michael and University
Hospitals.

The City Record
Section 9. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement of rehabilitating, renovating, reconstructing, or
otherwise improving certain portions of the donated property, including but not limited to, environmental remediation, site improvements, and other improvements accepted by the appropriate Director,
and other portions of the donated
property as recommended by the
feasibility study and accepted by
the appropriate Director, by one or
more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the improvement.
Section 10. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties or
Community Development, as appropriate, is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making of the public improvements with
the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding for a
gross price for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement may
be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
for a gross price. On request of the
appropriate Director the contractor
shall furnish a correct schedule of
unit prices, including profit and
overhead, for all items constituting
units of the improvement.
Section 12. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties or
Community Development, as appropriate and the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials, are
authorized to execute other documents and certificates, and take
other actions as may be necessary
or appropriate to effect the donations and lease authorized by this
ordinance, and to employ and pay
all fees for title companies, surveys,
escrows, appraisers, environmental
audits, and all other costs necessary
to accept the property.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 9, 10, and 12 of Ordinance No. 2152-03, passed January 5,
2004, are repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 215203, passed January 5, 2004, is supplemented by adding new Sections
8a and 8b to read as follows:
Section 8a. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties or
Community Development, as appropriate is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
for the management and reuse of
the donated property, including but
not limited to, environmental or
engineering services not performed
under Section 8b of this ordinance.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties or Community Development, as appropriate,
from a list of qualified consultants
available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties or Com-

783

11
munity Development, as appropriate,
for the purpose of compiling a list.
The compensation to be paid for the
services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties or Community Development, as appropriate, and certified
by the Director of Finance.
Section 8b. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties or
Community Development, as appropriate, is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Partners
Environmental Consulting, Inc. for
professional services necessary to
perform environmental or engineering services not performed under
Section 8a of this ordinance, on the
basis of its proposal dated January
3, 2006, in an amount not to exceed
$15,000, for the Department of Community Development.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Parks, Recreation
and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, Public Parks, Property and
Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 745-06.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into agreements with Storefront Renovation
Program applicants, and to enter into
agreements to reimburse eligible
administrative costs to community
development corporations for implementation of the Storefront Renovation Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into agreements with
Storefront Renovation Program applicants, and to enter into agreements to reimburse eligible administrative costs to community development corporations for implementation of the Storefront Renovation
Program. The agreements shall not
exceed $700,000.00 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 14 SF 032, Request
Nos. 149524.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept program income
monies in repayment from community development corporations under
the Storefront Renovation Program
and to utilize this program income, other Community Development Block Grant program income
and Kiosk program income in a
revolving fund for additional expenditures under the Storefront Renovation Program, and such program

12
income is hereby appropriated for
that purpose.
Section 3. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes,
naming the City of Cleveland as
payee, and mortgages, naming the
City of Cleveland as mortgagee, and
any other security instrument executed to evidence and secure repayment of loans, costs and fees under
the City’s Storefront Renovation
Program.
Section 4. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into forbearance
agreements with any recipient of a
validly existing loan, administered
by the City under the City’s Storefront Renovation Program.
Section 5. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to collect from persons or entities with whom the City is entering
into loan agreements or forebearance agreements an amount equal to
any amount spent for services related to such agreements, such as title
searches, credit bureau reports and
document filing fees. Such fees shall
be deposited into Fund No. 14.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 746-06.
By Council Members Lewis, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 171.03, relating to the
employment of health care professionals for employee examinations;
and to repeal Section 169.02 of the
codified ordinances.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 171.03, to read as follows:
Section 171.03 Employment of Health
Care Professionals for Employee
Examinations
The Director of Personnel and
Human Resources or the Civil Service Commission, through its Secretary, are authorized to employ by
one or more written contracts health
service professionals, including hospitals, clinics, medical providers,
physicians, psychiatrists, and psychologists to conduct, on an as-needed basis, medical examinations or
testing of City of Cleveland employees and applicants for positions in
the administrative service of the
City of Cleveland. The cost of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be

The City Record
payable from funds appropriated for
this purpose.
Section 2. That Section 169.02 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1572-85, passed July
22, 1985, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Personnel
and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Committees on Employment,
Affirmative Action and Training,
Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 747-06.
By Council Members Lewis, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 123.031 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1536-88,
passed June 20, 1988, relating to the
rental of sites and purchase of food,
refreshments, and mementos.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 123.031 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1536-88, passed June 20, 1988, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 123.031 Rental of Site and
Purchase of Food, Refreshments,
and Mementos
(a) The Director of Personnel and
Human Resources shall have the
authority to expend funds in order
to
provide
food,
refreshments,
mementos and, if necessary, to rent
a site for the following:
(1) Training sessions conducted
jointly with the labor unions relating to dispute resolution and other
labor-related issues;
(2) Employee programs and events
sponsored by the Department of
Personnel and Human Resources;
(3) Meetings to conduct labor
negotiations;
(4) Training evaluation meetings
held by DERS trainers to review
City programs in progress and discuss new programs;
(5) Events honoring employees
for work-related achievements, including but not limited to, the annual employees’ service award program; and
(6) Events honoring employees
for raising contributions for charitable organizations.
(b) The Director of Personnel and
Human Resources is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with vendors to obtain the food,
refreshments, mementos, and to rent
locations under division (a) of this
section, payable from funds appropriated for this purpose.
Section 2. That existing Section
123.031 of the Codified Ordinances of

784

April 26, 2006
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1536-88, passed
June 20, 1988, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Personnel
and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Committees on Employment,
Affirmative Action and Training,
Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 748-06.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with Slavic Village Development to provide economic development assistance to finance the repair and upgrade of the Dolloff
Road Municipal Parking Lot.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Slavic Village Development to provide economic development assistance to finance the repair and upgrade of the Dolloff
Road Municipal Parking Lot.
Section 2. That the costs of the
grant shall not exceed an amount of
$113,500.00 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 17 SF 652, Request No.
103698.
Section 3. That the agreement and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 4. The contract authorized
in
this
legislation
will
require the recipient of financial
assistance to work with The Workforce Investment Board for Workforce Area No. 3 to identify and
solicit qualified candidates for job
opportunities related to the City’s
contracts, and place special emphasis on the hard to employ, including but not limited to the disabled
and persons who have been convicted of or have pled guilty to a
criminal offense, unless the criminal conviction or related circumstances relate to the duties for the
particular job sought.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

April 26, 2006
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 751-06.
By Council Member Turner.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a contract
with the Harvard Community Services Center for the Community
Bridge Building Program through
the use of Ward 1 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development enters into
a contract with the Harvard Community Services Center for the Community Bridge Building Program for
the public purpose of providing
social support and educational services to senior citizens and disabled
residents residing in the City of
Cleveland through Ward 1 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $95,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 752-06.
By Council Member Turner.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into or amend
contracts
with
the
William
E.
Sanders Family Life Center, Inc.,
and the Harvard Community Services Center serving as the fiscal
agent for the Neighborhood Community
Social
Support
Program
through the use of Ward 1 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development enters into
or
amends
contracts
with
the
William E. Sanders Family Life
Center, Inc., and the Harvard Community Services Center serving as
the fiscal agent for the Neighbor-

The City Record
hood Community Social Support Program for the public purpose of providing food and clothing to needy
families residing in the City of
Cleveland through Ward 1 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $50,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 757-06.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Building and
Housing to secure bids for the demolition and remediation of the Memphis School through the use of Ward
16 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Building and Housing to secure bids
for the demolition and remediation
of the Memphis School located at
4103 Memphis Ave., Cleveland, Ohio
44109 for the public purpose of
implementing a neighborhood development project for the residents in
the City of Cleveland through the
use of Ward 16 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $150,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

785

13
Ord. No. 760-06.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the 2nd Annual Cleveland
Clinic Nurses Fun Run, May 2, 2006,
sponsored
by
Hermes
Sports
&
Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the 2nd Annual Cleveland Clinic Nurses Fun Run, sponsored by Hermes Sports & Events,
on May 6, 2006, with the run beginning at the Crile Building at East
100th; East 100th to Cedar; East on
Cedar to East 105th; north on East
105th to East 88th to turn around;
return same route to finish, provided that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 761-06.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for The World Congress of
Endourology Run, August 19, 2006,
sponsored
by
Hermes
Sports
&
Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of The World Congress
of Endourology Run, August 19,
2006, sponsored by Hermes Sports &
Events, on August 19, 2006; no roads
will be completely closed; traffic
will be maintained as the runners
pass each point, traffic will be reopened; the run begins at Carnegie

14
& East 100th; south to Cedar; west
to East 105th, north to Ansel Road;
turn around and repeat, finishing at
Carnegie and East 100th, provided
that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 762-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the American Cancer
Society Walk, on May 20, 2006, sponsored
by
the
American
Cancer
Society.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the American Cancer
Society Walk, sponsored by the
American Cancer Society on May 20,
2006, starting at East 6th to Huron;
Huron cross Superior to West 9th;
West 9th to St. Clair; St. Clair to
West 3rd; West 3rd to Erieside;
Erieside to East 9th; East 9th to
Eagle; Eagle to Gateway Plaza to
finish, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 763-06.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Hessler Neighborhood Association to
stretch one (1) banner at Ford
Drive, for the period from May 12,
2006 to May 22, 2006, inclusive, publicizing the Hessler Street Fair.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the Hessler Neighborhood Association to install, maintain and remove one banner at Ford
Drive, for a period from May 12, 2006
to May 22, 2006, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved by the Director of Public Service, in consultation
with the Director of Public Safety,
as to type, method of affixing and
location so as not to interfere with
any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or
ordinance. The permission of the
owner of any pole from which a banner will be hung must be obtained
prior to issuance of the permit. No
commercial
advertising
shall
be
printed or permitted on said banner
and said banner shall be removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 764-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Westside Charity
Foot Race, on June 10, 2006, sponsored by Hermes Sports.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

786

April 26, 2006
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Westside Charity
Foot Race, sponsored by Hermes
Sports on June 10, 2006, starting at
WSCC on Lorain; Lorain to Fulton
Road; Fulton to Franklin Blvd.;
Franklin Blvd. to West 65th; turn
around, Franklin Blvd. to West 38th;
West 38th to Lorain; Lorain to
WSCC — finish, provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police
and safety forces as may be necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit shall
further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to
the extent and in form satisfactory
to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 765-06.
By Council Member Pierce Scott.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the 19th Annual Michael
R. White Miler Fun Run, on May 25,
2006, (raindate: May 26, 2006) sponsored by Michael R. White Elementary School.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the 19th Annual
Michael R. White Fun Run, sponsored by Michael R. White Elementary School on May 25, 2006 (raindate: May 26, 2006), beginning at the
school, 1000 East 92nd St., west on
Parkgate Road to East Boulevard to
Parkside Road, north on Parkside
Road to Parkgate Road, east on
Parkgate Road and finish at the
school, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from

April 26, 2006
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 766-06.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Mt. Olive Missionary Baptist Church
to stretch banners on the northwest
corner of East 134th & Kinsman and
the north side of Union of Murtis
Taylor’s driveway to an adjacent
pole to the south side of Union, for
the period from May 25, 2006 to June
17, 2006, inclusive, publicizing the
church’s 6th Annual Juneteenth Celebration.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding the
provision of Section 623.13 of the Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of the Department
of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit
to Mt. Haven Missionary Baptist
Church to install, maintain and
remove banners on the northwest corner of East 134th & Kinsman and the
north side of Union of Murtis Taylor’s driveway to an adjacent pole to
the south side of Union, for the period from May 25, 2006 to June 17, 2006,
inclusive.
Said
banner
shall
be
approved by the Director of Public
Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so as
not to interfere with any sign erected and maintained under the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner of any pole
from which a banner will be hung
must be obtained prior to issuance of
the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or permitted on
said banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 749-06.
By Council Members Cleveland
and Zone.
An emergency resolution proclaiming April 26, 2006 as Cleveland Community Voice Mail Day and acknowledging the Cleveland Community
Voice Mail staff that help provide a
vital service to the homeless in
Cleveland.
Whereas,
Cleveland’s
homeless
population surpasses 25,000 people
over the course of a year, with over
4,000 people homeless every night
and 2,000 living in shelters; and
Whereas,
Cleveland’s
homeless
population needs access to safe,
affordable, decent housing and jobs
that pay a living wage; and
Whereas, the Cleveland Community Voice Mail program provides a
telephone number and message service to those who are homeless and
those with very low incomes in
Cleveland, allowing those struggling to find housing to receive messages
from
potential
landlords,
employers and social service providers; and
Whereas, Cleveland Community
Voice Mail has a 70% success rate
in linking people to employers, landlords and social service providers;
and
Whereas, Cleveland Community
Voice Mail has been in operation for
the past 6 years and has served over
17,000 people by providing them
safe, reliable access to messages;
and
Whereas, the Cleveland Community Voice Mail service has expanded
to Lorain County; currently over 60
agencies distribute Voice Mail boxes
in Cuyahoga and Lorain counties;
and
Whereas, Cleveland Community
Voice Mail won the Golden Phone
Award in 2005 as the best voice mail
system out of 37 voice mail programs in the United States; and
Whereas, Cleveland Community
Voice Mail has worked to provide
free toll free telephone numbers for
the victims of Hurricanes Katrina
and Rita so they could keep contact
with relatives scattered across the
country; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby proclaims April 26, 2006 as Cleveland Community Voice Mail Day and
acknowledges the Cleveland Community Voice Mail staff that help
provide a vital service to the homeless in Cleveland.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and

787

15
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 753-06.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 7002
Cedar Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Cedar 70, Inc.,
DBA Upstate Market, 7002 Cedar
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 1351124; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Cedar 70, Inc., DBA
Upstate Market, 7002 Cedar Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent
Number 1351124; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two

16
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 754-06.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D1,
D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at
18029 Euclid Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2,
D3 and D3A Liquor Permit from
JRH, Inc., DBA Johnny & Co., 18029
Euclid
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44112, Permanent Number 4403791 to
Johnny & Co. Bar and Grille, LLC,
18029
Euclid
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44112,
Permanent
Number
4307201; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the trans-

The City Record
fer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit from JRH, Inc.,
DBA Johnny & Co., 18029 Euclid
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permanent Number 4403791 to Johnny &
Co. Bar and Grille, LLC, 18029
Euclid
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44112, Permanent Number 4307201;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 755-06.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D1, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
at 2572 Scranton Road, 1st and 2nd
floors, and repealing Resolution No.
1327-05, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D1, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to 2572 Scranton Road, 1st and
2nd floors, by Resolution No. 1327-05
adopted by the Council on July 13,
2005; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to
Liebations, LLC, DBA Starkweather
South Side, 2572 Scranton Road, 1st
and 2nd floors, Cleveland, Ohio
44113, Permanent Number 5191268 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1327-05, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

788

April 26, 2006
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 756-06.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Britt, Cleveland, Pierce Scott, Polensek, Kelley, Brady, White, Brancatelli, Reed, Lewis, Cimperman,
Sweeney, Santiago, Zone, Turner and
Cummins.
An emergency resolution urging
the Ohio Department of Development
to develop criteria for the Ohio Jobs
Ready Sites Program that are fair
and enable urban communities to
apply for and receive funding.
Whereas, the Ohio Department of
Development (ODOD) is developing
criteria and rules by which communities in Ohio may apply for and
receive funding under the Ohio Jobs
Ready Sites program; and
Whereas, this Council understands
that the State is considering a rule
that
would
create
a
minimum
acreage requirement, limiting the
eligible acreage to at least 150
acres; and
Whereas, such a limitation would
significantly limit, if not eliminate,
the ability of urban communities to
apply for the funds available under
the Ohio Jobs Ready Sites program;
and
Whereas, the Ohio Jobs Ready
Sites program was made possible by
passage of State Issue 1, passed
overwhelmingly by voters in urban
areas of the state, including Cuyahoga County; and the City of Cleveland, the same areas that will be
ineligible to apply for and receive
funding under this program, should
the burdensome minimum acreage
requirement be made a criteria; and
Whereas,
a
minimum
acreage
requirement
such
as
the
one
described above is inconsistent with
the legislative intent of the bill creating the Ohio Jobs Ready Sites program; and
Whereas, the ODOD should also
consider making the amount and
nature of eligible local matching
funds through the Jobs Ready Sites
program less restrictive for smaller
urban areas; and
Whereas, the ODOD should also
consider the proximity to existing
infrastructure an asset in the site
certification process; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby urges the Ohio Department of
Development to develop criteria for
the Ohio Jobs Ready Sites Program
that are fair and enable urban communities to apply for and receive
funding.
Section 2. That the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit copies of
this resolution to Lt. Governor Bruce
Johnson and Fran Migliorino in the
Office of Governor Bob Taft, and to
the members of the Ohio House and
Senate representing the city of
Cleveland.

April 26, 2006
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 758-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to
1204 Old River Road, Mezzanine and
Patio.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2,
D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Kaos in the Flats, Inc., DBA Kaos,
1204 Old River Road, Mezzanine and
Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 4462671 to Lucic Enterprises, Inc., DBA Lucic’s, 1204 Old
River Road, Mezzanine and Patio,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 5337947; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3,

The City Record
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Kaos in the Flats, Inc., DBA Kaos,
1204 Old River Road, Mezzanine and
Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number
4462671
to
Lucic
Enterprises, Inc., DBA Lucic’s, 1204
Old River Road, Mezzanine and
Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 5337947; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 759-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to 6524 St.
Clair Avenue, 1st floor, basement and
patio.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit from John’s Tavern, Inc., DBA John’s Tavern, 1st
floor, basement and patio, 6524 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
Permanent Number 4298461 to ARA
Enterprise, Inc., DBA TKS Tavern,
1st floor and basement and patio,
6524 St. Clair Avenue 44103, Permanent Number 0251410; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with

789

17
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from John’s Tavern,
Inc., DBA John’s Tavern, 1st floor,
basement and patio, 6524 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 4298461 to ARA
Enterprise, Inc., DBA TKS Tavern,
1st floor and basement and patio,
6524 St. Clair Avenue 44103, Permanent Number 0251410; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 579-06.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic
Development to enter into a development agreement with the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority and Flats East Development
LLC., for construction and financing
of residential units and related commercial improvements.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
City
Planning,
Finance;
when
amended as follows:

The City Record

18
1. In Section 2, line 2, strike “57906-A” and insert “579-06-B”.
Amendment agreed to.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council, Council Member Brady
elected to recuse herself from the
vote regarding Ordinance No. 579-06.
Council Member Brady further requested that the City Record reflect
her recusal.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 583-06.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An
emergency
ordinance
to
amend Section 1 of Ordinance No.
2831-86, passed February 9, 1987, as
amended by various ordinances,
relating to establishing a Community Reinvestment Area in the
downtown area.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 655-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the City to pay a portion of
the costs of various utility and
infrastructure improvements within
the Flats East Bank Community
Plan area, as described in Ordinance
No. 1644-05.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Public Utilities, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service, Public Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 656-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the City to pay costs of public improvements within the Flats
East Bank Community Plan area, as
described in Ordinance No. 1644-05,
passed October 17, 2005.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Council President Sweeney excused Council Clerk Emily Lipovan
from the meeting. The Council President instructed Sandra Franklin,
First Assistant Clerk to proceed
with the meeting.

Conwell and Michael A. Dolan, be
and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:45 p.m. to meet Monday, May 1,
2006 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chambers.

First Assistant Clerk

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL
April 19, 2006
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, April 19, 2006,
at 10:30 a.m. with Mayor Jackson
presiding.
Present: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi, Dumas, Interim Directors
Ciaccia, Mok, Wasik, Carroll, Director Flask, Interim Director Cox,
Directors Rush, Hutchinson, Acting
Director Schmotzer, Directors Fumich
and Guzman.
Absent: Interim Director Rybka.
Others: Jim Hardy, Commissioner,
Purchases and Supplies.
Debra Linn Talley, Commissioner,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 143-06.
By Interim Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of W.A. Chester, LLC, for an
estimated quantity of maintenance
and repair of pipe-type cable, all
items, for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, for a period of two years
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on March
22, 2006, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1014-05, passed July 13,
2005, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$373,772.55 (Net, 30 Days), is approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of the contract of the following:

MOTION
By Council Member Kelley, seconded by Council Member Santiago
and unanimously carried that the
absence of Council Members Kevin

Requisition No. 157837
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $90,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor

790

April 26, 2006
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for the commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi, Dumas, Interim Directors
Ciaccia, Mok, Wasik, Carroll, Director Flask, Interim Director Cox,
Directors Rush, Hutchinson, Acting
Director Schmotzer, Directors Fumich
and Guzman.
Nays: None.
Absent: Interim Director Rybka.
Resolution No. 144-06.
By Interim Director Mok.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Kenmore Construction
Company, Inc., for the public improvement of constructing the Deicing Disposal Facility portion of
the Centralized Deicing Facility
Common Use Pad (also known as
Phase III), at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, base bid items
plus Alternate 5 (12% contingency),
for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control, received on
February 24, 2006, under the authority of Ordinance No. 465-05, passed
May 9, 2005, upon a unit basis for
the improvement, in the aggregate
amount of $2,765,638.40, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into a
contract for the improvement with
the bidder.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Kenmore Construction Company, Inc. is approved:
Dollar Amount
Subcontractors
DBE/MBE/FBE/NON%
Resource International
1.12% DBE/FBE

$

31,000.00

Mohawk Rebar
1.59% MBE

$

44,000.00

M & R Enterprises
13.74% MBE

$

380,000.00

Novatny Electric
3.62% NON D/F/MBE

$

100,000.00

McTech Corp.
1.45% DBE

$

40,000.00

Gateway Tank
38.11% NON D/F/MBE

$1,054,000.00

Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi, Dumas, Interim Directors
Ciaccia, Mok, Wasik, Carroll, Director Flask, Interim Director Cox,
Directors Rush, Hutchinson, Acting
Director Schmotzer, Directors Fumich
and Guzman.
Nays: None.
Absent: Interim Director Rybka.
Resolution No. 145-06.
By Interim Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of United Rentals (North
America), Inc. for an estimated
quantity of welders and aerial boom

The City Record

April 26, 2006
lifts, (all items), for the various
divisions of City government, for the
period of one year beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on January 12, 2006, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 82905, passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland on May 9, 2005, which
on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to $112,775.00
(Net-30), is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is requested to enter into a requirement
contract for the goods and/or services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of the contract of the following:
Requisition No. 161641
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $112,775.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi, Dumas, Interim Directors
Ciaccia, Mok, Wasik, Carroll, Director Flask, Interim Director Cox,
Directors Rush, Hutchinson, Acting
Director Schmotzer, Directors Fumich
and Guzman.
Nays: None.
Absent: Interim Director Rybka.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MAY 8, 2006
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 06-61: 3249 East 143rd
Street (Ward 4)
Rashiqa Abukhalil, owner, appeals to change the use of an existing nonconforming dwelling units
and store building to the use as a
store with elimination of the three
dwelling units, situated on a 40' x
133' parcel located in a Two-Family District on the east side of East
143rd Street at 3249 East 143rd
Street; the proposed change being a
substitution of a nonconforming use
and requires the approval of the
Board of Zoning Appeals as stated
in Section 359.01 of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 06-62: 2517 Jay Avenue
(Ward 13)
Gormark Developers, Inc., owner,
and Matt Solomon, agent, appeal to
construct an addition and change
the use from a hotel to apartments
and townhomes, proposed for an
existing three-story masonry building situated on a 74' x 108' lot
located in a General Retail Business
District on the southwest corner of
Jay Avenue and West 26th Street at
2517 Jay Avenue; contrary to Section
355.04 of the Area Regulations for
residence buildings in all use districts, 10,918 s/f is proposed instead
of one-half the lot size area or 5,993
s/f; and contrary to Section 357.04 in
the Requirements for Yards and
Courts, a front yard depth of 6' is
proposed where 16' is required; and
there is no rear yard where a 30'
depth is required, based upon onehalf the height of the main building
and as stated in Section 357.08(b)(2)
of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 06-63: 801 College Avenue (Ward 13)
John Krohe, owner, appeals to
erect an 8' x 17' frame deck to the
front of an existing single family
residence situated on a 38' x 78'
corner parcel located in a Two-Family District on the southwest corner
of College Avenue and Thurman
Street at 801 College Avenue; contrary to Section 357.13(b)(4), an 8'
projection is proposed and not more
than 6' is allowed and may not
aggregate a vertical area in any
story more than 20% of the area of
the facade in that story; and the
Board of Zoning Appeals shall have
no power to authorize as a variance
the location of a structure nearer
the street line than a required setback building line, unless the depth
or width of the lot on which the
structure is to be erected is sufficiently less than the depth or width
of other lots in the same block as
to create a hardship not shared by
other lots, or unless there exists a
building extending beyond the required setback on the same side in
the same block within 150' from
either side lot line of the lot in question,
as
stated
in
Section
329.04(c)(1) of the Codified Ordinances.

791

19
Calendar No. 06-64: 16210 Lorain
Avenue (Ward 21)
The
West
Park
Community
School, owner, and Constellation
Community School c/o Gerald Preseren, agent, appeal to construct a
two-story addition adjacent to an
existing three-story masonry school
building and to place temporary
modular classrooms on an irregular
shaped acreage parcel located in
split zoning between a General
Retail Business District and a OneFamily District on the north side of
Lorain Avenue at 16120 Lorain
Avenue; subject to the limitations of
Section 337.02(f)(3)(a), the proposed
school building and uses require the
Board of Zoning Appeals approval if
located less than 30' from a residential district and a public or private school building and uses are
permitted in a One Family District
only if approved by the Board of
Zoning Appeals as stated in Section
337.02(f) of the Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, APRIL 24, 2006
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, April 24,
2006, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 06-55: 4261 Fulton Parkway
Downing Memphis LLC appealed
to erect an addition to an existing
nonconforming use on acreage located in split zoning for Local Retail
Business and Two-Family Districts.
Calendar No. 06-56: 17102 Puritas
Avenue
Terry Hengoed appealed to erect
a 24' x 24' one-story frame accessory garage in an A1 One-Family
District; subject to condition.
Calendar No. 06-22: 1082 East 105th
Street
Maher Ali appealed to add a gas
station to an existing retail center
in a Local Retail Business District;
with conditions.
The following appeal was Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 06-53: 2925 Jay Avenue
Jay & 30 Project, LLC appealed to
erect a two-story frame, two family
dwelling on a 40' x 107' corner lot
in a Two-Family District.
The following
missed:

appeal

was

Dis-

None.
The following appeal was Postponed:
Calendar No. 06-57: 9422 Buckeye
Road postponed to May 15, 2006.

The City Record

20
In Executive Session on April 24,
2006, the following appeals heard by
the Board on April 17, 2006 were
adopted and approved.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 06-52: 10518 Churchill
Avenue
Rysar Properties appealed to erect
a 26' x 32' two-story single family
residence in a Residence Office District.
Calendar No. 06-54: 11317 Union Avenue
Jeremiah Baptist Church and Deacon Phillips appealed to expand a
church parking lot in a General
Retail Business District; subject to
condition.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 06-38: 5712 Harvard
Avenue
Kimberly McDermott, owner, and
Barbara Bradford, tenant, appealed
to expand a two family to include a
Type A Day Care in a General
Retail Business District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Re: Report of the Meeting of
April 19, 2006
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
*

*

*

Docket A-62-02.
RE: Appeal of Jacobs Investment
Management, Owner of the Property
located on the premises known as
2000 Sycamore Street from an ADJUDICATION ORDER, of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing,
dated
April
17,
2002,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is
in order at this time to extend the
variance for five (5) years from
today, with the provision that the
Appellant resubmit this documentation in a similar fashion at the
end of those times for a continuation. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saunders and seconded by
Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-18-06.
RE: Appeal of Ian Abrams, Owner
of the Property located on the
premises known as 3018 East 55th

Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — UNAUTHORIZED USE of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, dated February 17, 2006, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
Appellant’s request for additional
time and to REMAND the property
at 3018 East 55th Street to the
Department of Building and Housing for further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-21-06.
RE: Appeal of Neil T. Clough,
Owner of the Two Story Wood
Frame/Siding/ Masonry Veneer Residential Property located on the
premises known as 6711 Colgate
Avenue from a FORTHWITH FIRE
CONDEMNATION ORDER — MS of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, dated February 23, 2006, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant a thirty (30) day “Extension of Time” in which to obtain
permits and abate the violations; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays:
None.
*

*

April 26, 2006
Docket A-35-06.
RE: Appeal of Playhouse Square
Investors Ltd., Owner of the SemiIndustry Property located on the
premises known as 1375 Euclid
Avenue from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, dated April 7, 2006, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is
in order at this time to grant the
variance
requirements
with
no
openings, noting that there are two
and one/half fire separation shutters in series at the wall in question. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-16-06 — United Properties C/O
ZMDS, Inc.
A-20-06—Krause Project Partners.
A-22-06—M. Weingold & Company.
A-23-06—M. Weingold & Company.
A-24-06—Norfolk and Western R.R.
A-25-06—M.W. Acquisitions.
A-26-06—M.W. Acquisitions.
A-28-06—Carol T. Sakoumagus.
A-29-06—Harry Rock & Company.
A-30-06—Ryan P. Wach.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-33-06.
RE: Appeal of AHNB, LLC, Owner
of the Property located on the
premises known as 10548 St. Clair
Avenue
from
SUPPLEMENTARY
CONDITIONS, of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing,
dated
February
22,
22006,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
No action this date, the docket
will be rescheduled for May 3, 2006.

792

*

*

Docket A-27-06.
RE: Appeal of Trust Properties,
LLC C/O Michael Boukzam, Owner
of the Property located on the
premises known as 3044 West 104th
Street from a LIMITATION ON THE
PERMIT of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, dated March 24, 2006, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-27-06 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for a
later date.
*

*

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:

*

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Bradley for Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
April 5, 2006
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
NONE

April 26, 2006
CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

The City Record
CHASES AND SUPPLIES, ROOM
128, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

For All Departments
April 19, 2006 and April 26, 2006
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, MAY 3, 2006
Painting Streetside Elements, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1634-05, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, October
24, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING, THURSDAY,
APRIL 27, 2006 AT 10:00 A.M.,
CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER,
1300 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.
April 19, 2006 and April 26, 2006

21
A.M., DIVISION OF WATER —
DISTRIBUTION
AND
MAINTENANCE, 4600 HARVARD AVENUE,
METER
CONFERENCE
ROOM, NEWBURGH HEIGHTS,
OHIO 44105.

WEDNESDAY, MAY 10, 2006
April 19, 2006 and April 26, 2006
Purchase of Gasoline, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 194-06, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, March 27,
2006.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING TUESDAY, MAY 2, 2006 AT 2:00 P.M.,
DIVISION OF MOTOR VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE, 4150 EAST 49TH
STREET, BUILDING #1, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
Rental of Heavy-Duty Equipment,
Snow Removal Equipment and
Equipment Operators, for the Various Divisions, Department of Port
Control, as authorized by Ordinance No. 252-06, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
March 13, 2006.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 2006 AT 10:00
A.M.,
CLEVELAND
HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT’S RECEIVING BUILDING, 19451 FIVE
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44135.
Deicing Chemicals, for the Various
Divisions, Department of Port Control, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 248-06, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, March 13,
2006.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 2006 AT
11:00 A.M., CLEVELAND HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S RECEIVING BUILDING,
19451
FIVE
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.
April 19, 2006 and April 26, 2006
THURSDAY, MAY 11, 2006
Pipe Repair Couplings, for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section 129.25 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 2006 AT 10:00
A.M., DIVISION OF WATER —
DISTRIBUTION
AND
MAINTENANCE, 4600 HARVARD AVENUE,
METER
CONFERENCE
ROOM, NEWBURGH HEIGHTS,
OHIO 44105.

FRIDAY, MAY 26, 2006
Quicklime, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Section 129.24 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, FRIDAY, MAY 12, 2006 AT 1:00 P.M.,
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING, 1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
April 19, 2006 and April 26, 2006
FRIDAY, MAY 12, 2006
Cushman Equipment Parts for Golf
Courses,
for
the
Division
of
Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 81605, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 6, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
MONDAY, MAY 8, 2006 AT 11:00
A.M., DIVISION OF RECREATION
CONFERENCE, ROOM 8, CITY
HALL, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Toro Mower Parts for Golf Courses,
for the Division of Recreation,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 816-05, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 6, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
MONDAY, MAY 8, 2006 AT 11:30
A.M., DIVISION OF RECREATION
CONFERENCE, ROOM 8, CITY
HALL, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Jacobsen Mower Parts for Golf
Courses,
for
the
Division
of
Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 81605, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 6, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
MONDAY, MAY 8, 2006 AT 12:00
P.M., DIVISION OF RECREATION
CONFERENCE, ROOM 8, CITY
HALL, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
April 26, 2006 and May 3, 2006
THURSDAY, MAY 18, 2006

THURSDAY, MAY 4, 2006
On-Line Check Generation Fold-n-Seal
System, Including Installation and
Maintenance, for the Division of
Treasury, Department of Finance,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
pending.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 2006 AT
10:00 A.M., DIVISION OF PUR-

April 19, 2006 and April 26, 2006
FRIDAY, MAY 12, 2006
Water Meters Parts, for the Division
of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Section
129.25 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 2006 AT 10:00

793

Pipe Repair Clamps, for the Division
of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Section
129.25 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, THURSDAY, MAY 4, 2006 AT 10:00 A.M.,
DIVISION OF WATER — DISTRIBUTION AND MAINTENANCE,
4600 HARVARD AVENUE, PIPE

The City Record

22
REPAIR CONFERENCE ROOM,
NEWBURGH
HEIGHTS,
OHIO
44105.
Purchase and Rental of Various
Types of Safety Equipment for
Compliance with OSHA Regulations, for the Various Divisions,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 102805, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, July 13, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING, THURSDAY,
MAY 4, 2006 AT 2:00 P.M., DIVISION OF WATER, 1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, 1ST FLOOR AUDITORIUM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.
April 26, 2006 and May 3, 2006
FRIDAY, MAY 19, 2006
Tree Lawn Repair, for the Various
Divisions, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1024-05, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
September 19, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, MAY 4, 2006 AT 10:00
A.M., DIVISION OF WATER —
DISTRIBUTION
AND
MAINTENANCE, 4600 HARVARD AVENUE, S.A.M. CONFERENCE ROOM,
NEWBURGH HEIGHTS, OHIO 44105.
April 26, 2006 and May 3, 2006
WEDNESDAY, MAY 24, 2006
Bunker Gear Suits, Including Proximity
Pants,
Proximity
Coats,
Hoods, Helmets, Suspenders and
Boots, for the Various Divisions,
Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 24706, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, March 17, 2006.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
FRIDAY, MAY 12, 2006 AT 10:00
A.M., CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT’S RECEIVING BUILDING, 19451 FIVE
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44135.
April 26, 2006 and May 3, 2006

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 712-06.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C2 and C2X1 Liquor
Permit at 7819-21 Cedar Avenue, and
repealing
Resolution
No.
170-06,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to 7819
Cedar Avenue Corp., DBA White
Front Food Market, 7819-21 Cedar
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 8003657 by Resolu-

tion No. 170-06 adopted by the Council on January 30, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to 7819
Cedar Avenue Corp., DBA White
Front Food Market, 7819-21 Cedar
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 8003657 be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 170-06, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 19, 2006.
Effective April 21, 2006.

Res. No. 713-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
4915 N. Marginal Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1
Liquor
Permit
at
Lakeside
Marine Fuel, Inc., 4915 North Marginal Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44114,
Permanent Number 4979902; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

794

April 26, 2006
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Lakeside Marine
Fuel, Inc., 4915 North Marginal
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number 4979902; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 19, 2006.
Effective April 21, 2006.

Res. No. 714-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 1311 East 49th Street, 1st
floor.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2,
D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Stefanie Alaine Miller, DBA Bull
Shooters Bar & Grill, 1311 East 49th
Street, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44114, Permanent Number 6003816 to
Josephine E. Miller, DBA Bull Shooters Bar & Grill, 1311 East 49th
Street, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44114, Permanent Number 5983795;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and

April 26, 2006
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from Stefanie Alaine Miller, DBA Bull Shooters Bar & Grill, 1311 East 49th
Street, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44114, Permanent Number 6003816 to
Josephine E. Miller, DBA Bull Shooters Bar & Grill, 1311 East 49th
Street, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44114, Permanent Number 5983795;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 19, 2006.
Effective April 21, 2006.

Res. No. 715-06.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 5238
St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit from Wing San,
Inc., DBA Golden House Restaurant,
1st floor and basement, 5238 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 9693968 to China
House Restaurant, Inc., 1st floor and
basement, 5238 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent
Number 1434253; and

The City Record
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from Wing San, Inc.,
DBA Golden House Restaurant, 1st
floor and basement, 5238 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 9693968 to China
House Restaurant, Inc., 1st floor and
basement, 5238 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent
Number 1434253; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 19, 2006.
Effective April 21, 2006.

795

23
Res. No. 716-06.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
13302 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Arr Minute Market, Inc., DBA Arr Minute Market,
Inc., 13302 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent Number
0251590; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Arr Minute Market,
Inc., DBA Arr Minute Market, Inc.,
13302 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44110,
Permanent
Number
0251590; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and

The City Record

24
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 19, 2006.
Effective April 21, 2006.

Res. No. 717-06.
By Council Members Zone, Sweeney,
Brady,
White,
Cimperman,
Coats, Westbrook and Conwell.
An emergency resolution supporting H.R. 5054, the “Rebuilding America’s Infrastructure” bill.
Whereas, United States citizens
complain about the state of America’s public capital: about dilapidated
school buildings, condemned highway bridges, contaminated water
supplies, and other shortcomings of
the public infrastructure; and
Whereas, in addition to inflicting inconvenience and endangering
health, the inadequacy of the public
infrastructure adversely affects productivity and the growth of the
economy since public investment,
private investment and productivity
are intimately linked; and
Whereas, for over 2 decades the
United States government has retreated from public investment; and
Whereas, state and local governments, albeit to a lesser extent, have
also slowed public investments and
state and local taxpayers are frequently reluctant to approve bond
issues to finance public infrastructure; and
Whereas, in the early 1970s, nondefense public investment accounted
for about 3.2% of gross domestic
product; now it accounts for only
2.5%; and
Whereas, widespread neglect of
maintenance has contributed substantially to the failure of the stock
of public capital assets to keep pace
with the nation’s needs; and
Whereas, net of depreciation, the
real
nondefense
public
capital
stock expanded in the past 2

April 26, 2006

decades at a pace only half that set
earlier in the post World War II
period; and
Whereas, evidence of failures to
maintain and improve infrastructure
is seen every day in such problems
as unsafe bridges, urban decay,
dilapidated and over-crowded schools
and inadequate airports; and
Whereas, the state departments of
education collected data that reveals
at least $300,000,000,000 worth of
unmet school infrastructure needs;
and
Whereas, H.R. 5054 will help the
nation take a significant step forward both in overcoming its infrastructure deficit and in promoting
the productivity needed to meet the
competitive challenges of the 21st
century; and
Whereas, H.R. 5054 represents fiscally sound planning and, in salient
ways, advances sound fiscal and
monetary operations; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby supports H.R 5054, the “Rebuilding America’s Infrastructure” bill.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to U.S. Representatives Dennis Kucinich, Stephanie Tubbs Jones and Steven La
Tourette.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 19, 2006.
Effective April 21, 2006.

Ord. No. 2205-05.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
University Hospitals for the Safe
Communities, Targeted Enforcement
Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
amount of $65,000, from University
Hospitals to conduct the Safe Communities,
Targeted
Enforcement
Program; that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes described in the planning
worksheet for the grant contained
in the file described below.
Section 2. That the planning worksheet for the grant, File No. 2205-05A, made a part of this ordinance as
if fully rewritten, as presented to
the Finance Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
if the extension does not involve an
increase in the dollar amount of the
grant specified above.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 19, 2006.
Effective April 21, 2006.

Ord. No. 161-06.
By Council Members Britt, Lewis, Cleveland, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 344.07 of Ordinance No. 910-05, passed July 13, 2005, relating to the
building height requirements within the Midtown Mixed-Use District; and to amend Sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of Ordinance No. 1785-05, passed October 31, 2005, relating to zoning within the district.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 344.07 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No.
910-05, passed July 13, 2005, is amended to read as follows:
Section 344.07 Building Height Requirements
Principal buildings shall have height characteristics as set forth in Schedule 344.07:
Schedule 344.07
Building Height Requirements

Euclid
MMUD-1

Chester
MMUD-2

Carnegie
MMUD-3

Minimum height requirement

3 stories
(that are
occupiable
floors)

None

None

None

Maximum height requirement

115 feet

60 feet

60 feet

60 feet

796

Chester West
MMUD-4

April 26, 2006

The City Record

25

Section 2. That existing Section 344.07 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 910-05, passed July 13, 2005, is repealed.
Section 3. That Sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of Ordinance No. 1785-05, passed October 31, 2005, are amended to read as
follows:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands described as follows;
Beginning in the centerline of Prospect Avenue and its intersection with the centerline of East 40th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of East 40th Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation
of the Northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Level 3 Communications by deed dated August 26th, 1999
and recorded as AFN 199908268969 in the Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel also being known as PPN 10309-011);
Thence Easterly along said prolongation and Northerly line to its intersection with the Easterly line of said
parcel;
Thence Southerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with a line drawn 150 Northerly and parallel to
the Northerly line of Euclid Avenue;
Thence Easterly along said parallel line to its intersection with the centerline of East 55th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Southerly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to Sucha Sing by deed dated September 23rd, 2003 and recorded as AFN 200309230962
in Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel also being know as PPN 118-02-021);
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line thereof;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the Southerly line of Sublot No. 39 in the
Cobb, Bradley and Wick Subdivision as shown by the Recorded Plat in Volume 20 of Maps and Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line to its intersection with the centerline of East 57th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Southerly line of Sublot No. 12 in said Cobb,
Bradley and Wick Subdivision;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line to its intersection with the Easterly line thereof;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the Southerly line of Sublot No. 12 in the
Southern and Adams Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps and Page 4 of Cuyahoga
County Records;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of East 59th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Southerly line of Sublot No. 3 in said Southern and Adams Subdivision;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of East 61st Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Southerly line
of Sublot No. 1 in the Clara Hannon’s Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 15 of Maps and Page
29 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Easterly along said prolongation and Southerly line to its intersection with the Westerly line of said
Subdivision;
Thence Northerly along said Westerly line to its intersection with the Southerly line of Sublot No. 2 in said
Subdivision;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line to its intersection with the centerline of East 63rd Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of a Southerly line
of a 1.6641 Acre parcel of land shown on the Plat of Consolidation Recorded in Volume 308 of Maps Page 10 of
Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel also being known as all of PPNs 118-04-047 and 008);
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line to its intersection with a Westerly line thereof;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line to its intersection with a Southerly line of said parcel;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line to its intersection with the centerline of East 65th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Robert Bondi by deed dated November 22nd, 1996 and recorded in
Volume 96-11542 of Maps and Page 55 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel also being known as PPN
118-06-030);
Thence Easterly along said Westerly prolongation and Northerly line to its intersection with the Easterly line
thereof;
Thence Southerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the Northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Joseph M. Stern Company by deed dated January 18th 1947 and recorded in Volume 6251 of Maps and
Page 696 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel also being known as PPN 118-06-048);
Thence Easterly along said Northerly line and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of East 66th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Southerly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to 6611 Properties LLC by deed dated January 7th, 2002 and recorded as AFN
200201070050 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel also being known as PPN 118-06-050);
Thence Easterly to its intersection with the Easterly line thereof;
Thence Southerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with a line drawn 200 feet north of and parallel
to the northerly line of Euclid Avenue;
Thence Easterly along said parallel line to its intersection with the centerline of East 69th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Northerly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to the city of Cleveland by Deed dated October 4th, 1993 and recorded in Volume
93-10693 Page 37 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel also being known as PPN 118-08-025);
Thence Easterly along said prolongation, Northerly line and Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of East 70th Street;

797

26

The City Record

April 26, 2006

Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Southerly line
of Sublot No. 4 in the Streator & Adams Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 4 of Maps Page 4
of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Easterly along said Westerly prolongation, Southerly line and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of East 71st Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Simpson Court;
Thence Easterly along said centerline of Simpson Court to its intersection with the centerline of East 73rd
Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Southerly line
of Sublot No. 10 in the Spangler Heirs Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 14 of Maps Page 8
of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Easterly along said Westerly prolongation, Southerly line and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of East 75th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Southerly line
of Sublot No. 3 in said Subdivision;
Thence Easterly along said Westerly prolongation and Southerly line to its intersection with the Easterly line
of said Spangler Heirs Subdivision;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the Southerly line of the Chase Anderson &
Robinson Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 4 of Maps and Page 54 of Cuyahoga County
Records;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line to its intersection with the Westerly line of a 12 foot unnamed alley
as shown in said Chase Anderson & Robinson Subdivision;
Thence Northerly along said Westerly line to its intersection with the centerline of Chester Avenue;
Thence Easterly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of East 79th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of East 79th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Carnegie
Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said centerline of Carnegie Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of East 77th
Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of East 77th Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation,
and Northerly line of Sublot No. 6 in the C.E. Bolton & John E. Colby as shown by the recorded plat in Volume
5 of Maps Page 36 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Westerly along said Easterly prolongation, Northerly line and Westerly prolongation to its intersection with
the Easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Barbara Jalovec by deed dated November 14th, 1967 as recorded in
Volume 12173 Page 965 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel being also known as PPN 118-15-007);
Thence Southerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Southerly
line of a parcel of land conveyed to Iron Mountain Safesite, Inc. by deed dated October 22, 1999 and recorded as
AFN 199910220132 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel being also known as PPN 118-15-003);
Thence Westerly along said Easterly prolongation and Southerly line to its intersection with the Easterly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to Ram Enterprises by deed dated August 26th, 1983 as recorded in Volume 83-259
Page 533 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel being also known as PPN 118-15-025);
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the Northerly line thereof;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of East 71st Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Southerly line
of Sublot No. 3 in the Carnegie Euclid Company Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 67 of Maps,
Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Easterly along said Easterly prolongation, Southerly line and Westerly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of East 70th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Southerly line
of Sublot No. 19 in said Carnegie Euclid Company Subdivision;
Thence Westerly along said Easterly prolongation and Southerly line to its intersection with the Westerly line
thereof;
Thence Northerly along said Westerly line to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Northerly
line of a parcel of land conveyed to Page Sumpter by Deed dated May 23rd, 1977 and recorded in Volume 14471,
Page 645 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel also being known as PPN 118-14-020);
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line, Easterly prolongation and Westerly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of East 69th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Northerly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to Roderick Nassif by Deed dated September 25th, 2001 and recorded as AFN
200109250811 (said parcel being also known as PPN 118-13-017);
Thence Westerly along said Easterly prolongation, Northerly line and Westerly prolongation in a direct line to
its intersection with the Westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to RBR Properties LTD by Deed dated May
22nd, 2000 and recorded as AFN 200005220253 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel being also known as PPN
118-13-001);
Thence Northerly along said Westerly line to its intersection with the Northerly line of Sublot No. 14 in the
Euclid Improvement Company Subdivision Unrecorded;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line and Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of
Vacated East 65th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Southerly line
of Parcel 3 in the Consolidation for Pierre’s as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 270, Page 37 in Cuyahoga
County Records;

798

April 26, 2006

The City Record

27

Thence Westerly along said Easterly prolongation of the Southerly line of Parcel 3 to its intersection with the
Easterly line thereof;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with a line drawn 100 feet Southerly of and parallel to the Southerly line of Euclid Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said parallel line to its intersection with an Easterly line of Block A in said Consolidation for Pierre’s;
Thence Southerly along said Easterly line to a Northerly line of said Block A;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line to its intersection with the Northerly prolongation of the Westerly
line of Parcel A-1 as shown in said Consolidation for Pierre’s;
Thence Southeasterly along said Westerly line to its intersection with a line drawn 335 feet from and parallel
to the Northerly line of Carnegie Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said parallel line to its intersection with the centerline of East 55th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Northerly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to 5000 Prospect LTD., by Deed dated January 11th, 2002 and recorded as AFN
200201111120 in Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel being also known as PPN 103-18-010);
Thence Westerly to its intersection with the Westerly line of said parcel so conveyed;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line to its intersection with the centerline of Prospect Road;
Thence Northwesterly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of East 46th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of East 46th Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of
the Southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to James C. Comella and Sherry E. Greer by Deed dated January 5th, 1993 and recorded in Volume 93-86, Page 20 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel also being known
as PPN 103-17-014);
Thence Westerly along said Southerly line and Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the Westerly line
of Sublot 9 in Henry F. Clark’s Corrected Subdivision as recorded in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 10 of Cuyahoga
County Records;
Thence Northerly along said Westerly line to its intersection with the centerline of Prospect Road;
Thence Northwesterly along said centerline to its intersection with the Northerly prolongation of the Westerly
line of Original Ten Acre Lot No. 71;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the Northerly
line of Sublot No. 12 in said Subdivision;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line and its Westerly prolongation in a direct line to its intersection with
the Westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Centennial Investments LP by Deed dated May 28th, 2002 and
recorded as AFN 200205281003 (said parcel also being known as PPN 103-17-007);
Thence Northerly along said Westerly line to its intersection with the Northerly line of said parcel so conveyed;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of East 40th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of East 40th Street to the principal place of beginning.
and as outlined on the attached map is changed to a Midtown Mixed Use District 1: Euclid Corridor.
Section 2. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands described as follows;
Beginning in the centerline of Chester Avenue at its intersection with the Westerly line of a 12 foot wide
unnamed alley as shown in the Chase Anderson & Robinson Subdivision recorded in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 54
of Cuyahoga county Records;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of a 12 foot wide unnamed alley to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Southerly line of said Subdivision;
Thence Westerly along said Southerly Subdivision line to its intersection with the Easterly line of the Spangler Heirs Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 14 of Maps Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Southerly along said Easterly Subdivision line to its intersection with the Southerly line of Sublot No.
3 in said Subdivision;
Thence Westerly along said Southerly line and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of East 75th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Southerly line
of Sublot No. 53 in said Spangler Heirs Subdivision;
Thence Westerly along said prolongation; Southerly line and along the Southerly line of Sublot No. 10 and its
Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of East 73rd Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Simpson Avenue, N.E.;
Thence Westerly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of East 71st Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Southerly line
of Sublot No. 4 in the Streator & Adams Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 4 of Maps, Page
2 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Westerly along said Easterly prolongation, Southerly line and Westerly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of East 70th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline to the Easterly prolongation of the Northerly line of a parcel of land
conveyed to The City of Cleveland by Deed dated October 4th, 1993 and recorded in Volume 93-10693, Page 37 of
Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel also being known as PPN 118-08-025);
Thence Westerly along said Easterly prolongation, Northerly line and Westerly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of East 69th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with a line drawn 200 feet Northerly of and parallel
to Euclid Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said parallel line to its intersection with the Easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed
to 6611 Properties LLC by Deed dated January 7th, 2002 and recorded as AFN 200201070050 of Cuyahoga County
Records (said parcel also being know as PPN 118-06-025);

799

28

The City Record

April 26, 2006

Thence Northerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the Southerly lin of a parcel of land conveyed to 6111 Properties LLC by Deed dated January 7th, 2002 and recorded as AFN 200201070049 of Cuyahoga
County Records (said parcel also being known as PPN 118-06-050);
Thence Westerly along said Southerly line and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of East 66th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of East 66th Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of
the Northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Joseph M. Stern Company by Deed dated January 18th, 1947
and recorded in Volume 6251, Page 696 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel also being known as PPN 11806-048);
Thence Westerly along said Easterly prolongation of and Northerly line to its intersection with the Easterly
line of a parcel of land conveyed to Robert Bondi by Deed dated November 22nd, 1996 and recorded in Volume
96-11542, Page 55 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel also being known as PPN 118-06-030);
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the Northerly line of said parcel so conveyed;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line and the Westerly prolongation thereof to its intersection with the
centerline of East 65th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Southerly line
of a 1.6641 Acre parcel of land shown on the Plat of Consolidation recorded in Volume 308, Page 10 of Cuyahoga
County Records said parcel also being known as all of PPN (s) 118-04-047 and 008;
Thence Westerly along said prolongation of and Southerly line to its intersection with the Westerly line of said
parcel;
Thence Northerly along said Westerly line to its intersection with its intersection with a Southerly line of said
parcel;
Thence Westerly along said Southerly line and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of East 63rd Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Southerly line
of Sublot No. 2 in the Clara Hannon’s Subdivision as shown in Volume 15 of Maps, Page 29 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Westerly along said prolongation and Southerly line of Sublot No. 2 to its intersection with the Westerly line of said Subdivision;
Thence Northerly along said Westerly line to its intersection with the Southerly line of Sublot No. 7 in said
Subdivision;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line and Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of
East 63rd Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of East 63rd Street to its intersection with the centerline of Chester
Avenue;
Thence Easterly along said centerline of Chester Avenue to the place of beginning.
and as outlined on the attached map is changed to a Midtown Mixed Use District 2: Chester Corridor East.
Section 3. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands described as follows;
Beginning in the centerline of Carnegie Avenue and its intersection with the centerline of East 79th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Southerly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to the City of Cleveland by Deed dated April 9th, 1997 and recorded in Volume 973130, Page 25 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Westerly along said Easterly prolongation of and Southerly line to its intersection with the Easterly
line of a parcel of land conveyed to Dionne Carmichael by Deed dated July 20th, 2005 and recorded AFN
200507200524 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel being also known as PPN 118-27-023);
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the Northerly line of said parcel;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the Easterly line of the George Watkins Subdivision as shown in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 21 of Cuyahoga County
Records;
Thence Southerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the Southerly line of Sublot No. 3 in said
Subdivision;
Thence Westerly along said Southerly line to its intersection with the centerline of East 77th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with a line drawn 50 feet Northerly of and parallel
to the Northerly line of the Northerly line of Cedar Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said parallel line to its intersection with the Westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed
to 6530 Carnegie LTD by Deed dated July 21st, 1997 and recorded in Volume 97-7045, Page 20 of Cuyahoga County Records said parcel also being known as PPN 118-21-006;
Thence Northerly along said Westerly line to its intersection with the Northerly line of said parcel;
Thence Westerly along the Westerly prolongation of said Northerly line to its intersection with the centerline
of East 65th Street;
Thence Northerly along the centerline of East 65th Street to its intersection with a line drawn 160 feet Southerly of and parallel to the Southerly line of Carnegie Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said parallel line to its intersection with the centerline of East 55th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Northerly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to The City Mission by Deed dated March 3rd, 2001 and recorded as Auditor’s File
Number 20010301457 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Westerly along the Easterly prolongation, Northerly line, and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the Easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Fresh Start, Inc. by Deed dated October 10th, 1968
and recorded in Volume 12364, Page 453 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel being also known as PPN 10318-031);

800

April 26, 2006

The City Record

29

Thence Northerly along said Easterly line to the Northerly line of said parcel;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the Easterly
line of Sublot No. 3 in the George Williams Subdivision as shown in Volume 12 of Maps, Page 15 of Cuyahoga
County Records;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the Northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Land Metropolitan CME Church by Deed dated March 6th, 1973 as recorded in Volume 13188, Page 895
of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel also being known as PPN 103-18-004);
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of East 46th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Northerly line
of Sublots 19 through 23 in Henry F. Clark’s Corrected Subdivision as recorded in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 10 of
Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the Easterly
line of a parcel of land conveyed to the Reno Hotel Inc. by Deed dated March 17th, 1975 and recorded in Volume
13816, Page 53 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel also being known as PPN 103-17-003);
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the Northerly line of said parcel;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of East 40th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Northerly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to Centennial Investments LP by Deed dated May 28th, 2002 and recorded as AFN
200205281003 (said parcel also being known as PPN 103-17-007);
Thence Easterly along said Westerly prolongation and Northerly line to its intersection with the Easterly line
of said parcel;
Thence Southerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Northerly
line of Sublot Numbers 12 and 13 in said Henry F. Clark’s Corrected Subdivision;
Thence Easterly along said Westerly prolongation and Northerly Sublot line to its intersection with the Westerly line of Original Ten Acre Lot No. 71;
Thence Northerly along said Westerly line to its intersection with the centerline of Prospect Road;
Thence Southeasterly along said centerline to its intersection with the Northerly prolongation of the Westerly
line of Sublot No. 9 in said Subdivision;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line to its intersection with the Southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to James C. Comella and Sherry E. Greer by Deed dated January 5th, 1993 and recorded in Volume 93-86,
Page 20 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel being also known as PPN 103-17-014);
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of East 46th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Prospect Road;
Thence Southeasterly along said centerline of Prospect Road to its intersection with the Southerly prolongation
of the Westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to 5000 Prospect LTD., LLC by Deed dated January 11th, 2002
and recorded as AFN 200201111120 in Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Northerly along said Southerly prolongation and Westerly line to its intersection with the Northerly line
of said parcel;
Thence Easterly along said Northerly line and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of East 55th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline to its intersection with a line drawn 335 feet from and parallel to the
Northerly line of Carnegie Avenue;
Thence Easterly along said parallel line to its intersection with the Westerly line of Parcel A-1 as shown on
the Plat of Resubdivision as recorded in Volume 270, Page 37 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Northwesterly along said Westerly line to its intersection with a Northwesterly line of said Parcel A-1;
Thence Southeasterly along said Northwesterly line to its intersection with a Northerly line of said parcel;
Thence Easterly along said Northerly line to a Westerly line thereof;
Thence Northerly along said Westerly line to a Northerly line thereof;
Thence Easterly along said Northerly line to its intersection with the centerline of vacated East 65th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Northerly line
of Sublot No. 14 in the Euclid Improvement Company Subdivision Unrecorded (said parcel also being known PPN
118-12-014);
Thence Easterly along said Westerly prolongation and Northerly line to its intersection with the Westerly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to RBR Properties LTD by Deed dated May 22nd, 2000 and recorded as AFN
200005220253 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel being also known as PPN 118-13-001);
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of PPN 118-13-001 to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation
of the Northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Roderick Nassif by Deed dated September 25th, 2001 and
recorded as AFN 200109250811 (said parcel being also known as PPN 118-13-017);
Thence Easterly along said northerly line and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of East 69th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Northerly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to Page Sumpter by Deed dated May 23rd, 1977 and recorded in Volume 14471, Page
645 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel being also known as 118-14-020);
Thence Easterly along said Northerly line and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the Westerly
line of Sublot No. 19 in the Carnegie Euclid Company Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 67
of Maps, Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of Sublot No. 19 to its intersection with the Southerly line of said
parcel;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line to its intersection with the centerline of East 70th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Southerly line
of Sublot No. 11 in said Subdivision;

801

30

The City Record

April 26, 2006

Thence Easterly along said Westerly prolongation, Southerly line, and Easterly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of East 71st, Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Northerly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to RAM Enterprises by Deed dated August 26th, 1983 as recorded in Volume 83-259,
Page 533 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel also being known as PPN 118-15-025);
Thence Easterly along said Northerly line to its intersection with the Easterly line of said parcel;
Thence Southerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the Southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Iron Mountain Safesite, Inc. by Deed dated October 22nd, 1999 and recorded as AFN 199910220132 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel being also known as PPN 118-15-003);
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the Easterly
line of a parcel of land conveyed to Barbara Jalovec by Deed dated November 14th, 1967 as recorded in Volume
12173, Page 965 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel being also known as PPN 118-15-007);
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Northerly
line of Sublot No. 6 in the C.E. Bolton & John E. Colby Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5,
Page 36 in Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Easterly along said Westerly prolongation, Northerly line and Easterly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of East 77th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Carnegie Avenue;
Thence Easterly along said centerline to the place of beginning.
and as outlined on the attached map is changed to a Midtown Mixed Use District 3: Carnegie Corridor.
Section 4. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands described as follows;
Beginning in the intersection of the centerline of Chester Avenue and the centerline of East 63rd Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of East 63rd Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of
the Southerly line of Sublot No. 7 in the Clara Hannon’s Subdivision and recorded in Volume 15 of Maps, Page
29 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Westerly along said prolongation and Southerly line to its intersection with the Westerly line of said
Subdivision;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Southerly
line of Sublot No. 1 in said Subdivision;
Thence Westerly along said Southerly line and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of East 61st Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of East 61st Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of
the Southerly line of Sublot No. 3 in the Southern & Adams Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat in Volume
5 of Maps, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Westerly along said Easterly prolongation, Southerly line and Westerly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of East 59th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of East 59th Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of
the Southerly line of Sublot No. 12 of said Southern & Adams Subdivision;
Thence Westerly along said Easterly prolongation and Southerly line of Sublot No. 12 to its intersection with
the Westerly line of said Southern & Adams Subdivision;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line to its intersection with the Southerly line of Sublot No. 12 in the
Cobb, Bradley & Wick Subdivision;
Thence Westerly along said Southerly line and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of East 57th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of East 57th Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of
the Southerly line of Sublot No. 39 in said Cobb, Bradley & Wick Subdivision;
Thence Westerly along said Easterly prolongation and Southerly line to its intersection with the Easterly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to Sucha Singh by Deed dated September 23, 2003 and recorded as AFN 200309230962
in Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel also being known as PPN 118-02-021);
Thence Southerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the Southerly line of said Singh parcel;
Thence Westerly along said Southerly line to its intersection with the centerline of East 55th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of East 55th Street to its intersection with a line drawn 150 feet Northerly of and parallel to Euclid Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said parallel line to its intersection with the Easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed
to Level 3 Communications by Deed dated August 26, 1999 and recorded as AFN 199908268969 of Cuyahoga County Records (said parcel also being known as PPN 103-09-011);
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the Northerly line of said parcel so conveyed;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of East 40th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Chester Avenue;
Thence Easterly along said centerline to the place of beginning.
And also being all of Block C, Block A and a section of Parcel 3 in the Consolidation for Pierre’s as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 270, Page 37 in Cuyahoga County Records excepting all of that portion of the
aforementioned parcels lying within 100 feet of the Southerly line of Euclid Avenue.
and as outlined on the attached map is changed to a Midtown Mixed Use District 4: Chester Corridor West.
Section 4. That existing Sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of Ordinance No. 1785-05, passed October 31, 2005, are
repealed.
Section 5. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 19, 2006.
Effective April 21, 2006.

802

April 26, 2006
Ord. No. 295-06.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement
contracts
of
labor,
materials, and equipment necessary
to trim trees for clearance around
electrical wires and streetlights, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a one or two-year
period of the necessary items of
labor, materials, and equipment
necessary to trim trees for clearance around electrical wires and
streetlights, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the
preceding term, to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies on a unit basis for the
Division
of
Cleveland
Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control
determines. Alternate bids for a
period less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies until provision is made for
the requirements for the entire
term. The Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into one
or more contracts with a term of
two years instead of one year when
there is a financial advantage to
the City. For purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall
be determined by the Director of
Public Utilities by comparing the
bids received for both terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies
under
a
requisition
against the contract or contracts
certified
by
the
Director
of
Finance. (RL 157771)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 19, 2006.
Effective April 21, 2006.

The City Record
Ord. No. 297-06.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase of natural gas by
one or more requirement contracts,
and authorizing the purchase of natural gas transportation services by
one or more requirement contracts
without competitive bidding with
Dominion East Ohio Gas Company,
for the various divisions of City government for a period of one year,
with an option to renew for an additional one-year period.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
a one-year period, with one option to
renew for an additional one-year
period, of the necessary item of natural gas, in the approximate amount
as purchased during the preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the various divisions of City government. Bids shall
be taken in a manner that permits
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That it is hereby determined that natural gas transportation services are non-competitive
and cannot be secured from any
source other than the Dominion East
Ohio Gas Company. Therefore, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts with the Dominion
East Ohio Gas Company for the
requirements for a one-year period,
with one option to renew for an
additional one-year period, of the
necessary item of natural gas transportation services, in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding term, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis for the
various divisions of City government.
Section 3. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 118761)
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force

803

31
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 19, 2006.
Effective April 21, 2006.

Ord. No. 454-06.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the U.S. Department of Justice,
Bureau of Justice Assistance for the
2006 Gang Resistance Education and
Training Program; and authorizing
the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of materials and supplies needed to implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
amount of $180,000.00, from the U.S.
Department of Justice, Bureau of
Justice Assistance to conduct the
2006 Gang Resistance Education and
Training (“GREAT”) Program that
the Director of Public Safety is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes set forth in the
application for the grant contained
in the file described below.
Section 2. That the application for
the grant, File No. 454-06-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, including the obligation
of the City to provide matching
funds in the sum of $20,000.00,
payable from Fund Nos. 10 SF 025,
10 SF 027, and 10 SF 049, are
approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
if the extension does not involve an
increase in the dollar amount of the
grant specified above.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements during the grant period of the necessary items of materials and supplies
needed to implement the grant, in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Department of Public
Safety. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.

32
Section 5. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the fund or funds
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance
and from the proper appropriation
accounts
and
the
Director
of
Finance shall certify the amount of
the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 6. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Safety may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 19, 2006.
Effective April 21, 2006.

Ord. No. 495-06.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to maintain, repair, and replace substation equipment, including but not limited to
batteries, switchgear, transformers
and circuit breakers, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of two
years of the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
maintain, repair, and replace substation equipment, including but
not limited to batteries, switchgear,
transformers and circuit breakers,
in the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities. Bids shall
be taken in a manner that permits
an award to be made for all items

The City Record
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than two years
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is
made for the requirements for the
entire term. The Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with a term
of two years instead of one year
when there is a financial advantage to the City. For purposes of
this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined by the
Director of Public Utilities by comparing the bids received for both
terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies
under
a
requisition
against the contract or contracts
certified by the Director of Finance.
(RL 157804)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 19, 2006.
Effective April 21, 2006.

Ord. No. 600-06.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing payment of membership dues
of the City of Cleveland in various
professional organizations.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to cause payment of 2006 membership dues of
the City of Cleveland to be made to
the Ohio Municipal League, NOACA,
Mayors and Managers Association,
U.S. Conference of Mayors, National
League of Cities, Greater Cleveland
Partnership,
and
the
Downtown
Development Corporation. The membership dues for the Ohio Municipal

804

April 26, 2006
League will include forty-five subscriptions to Cities and Village Magazine.
Section 2. That the payment for
the dues and subscriptions shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 01-999800623100,
01-999800-623200,
01-999800623300,
01-999800-623700,
01-999800623800, 01-999800-624300, and 01-999800624600, Request No. 146292.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 19, 2006.
Effective April 21, 2006.

Ord. No. 611-06.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health
to apply for and accept a grant from
the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health for the Cuyahoga County
Public Health Collaborative Program; to enter into one or more
requirement contracts necessary to
implement the program; to enter
into one or more contracts with
Executive Information Systems LLC
to acquire license updates and any
upgrades for SAS; and authorizing
the Director to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies necessary to implement the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $285,375, and
any other funds as they become
available during the grant term,
from the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health to conduct the Cuyahoga
County Public Health Collaborative
Program; that the Director of Public Health is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the administrative summary for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 611-06-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation and shall not be changed
without
additional
legislative
authority,
is
approved
in
all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the

April 26, 2006
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the necessary items
of equipment and supplies needed
to implement the program. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that
permits an award to be made for
all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any
combination of the items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less
than the grant term may be taken
if desired by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term.
Section 6. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Health may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with
Executive Information Systems LLC
for the acquisition of one or more
license updates and any upgrades
for SAS, including but not limited to
installation, design, training, testing, technical support, server components, integration software and
software maintenance for a period
of one year.
Section 8. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with various entities for the implementation
of the program as described in the
file.
Section 9. That the cost of the contracts authorized by this ordinance
shall be paid from the fund or funds
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance.
Section 10. That the costs of the
contracts authorized by this ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance and shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts
and
the
Director
of
Finance shall certify the amount of
the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director.
Section 11. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 19, 2006.
Effective April 21, 2006.

Ord. No. 612-06.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health
to lease space and associated parking lots for office and administrative space for the Department of
Public Health for a period not to
exceed one year; and authorizing a
month-to-month interim extension of
Contract No. 62484 with Mural Properties for a period not to exceed one
year, with one option to renew for
an additional two year period.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Health is authorized to lease space
and associated parking lots for
office and administrative space for
the Department of Public Health.
Section 2. That the term of the
lease authorized by this ordinance
shall not exceed one year, with one
option to renew for an additional
two year period, exercisable by the
Director of Public Health.
Section 3. That the rent for the
lease authorized by this ordinance
shall be fair market value, exclusive
of utilities, as determined by the
Board of Control.
Section 4. That the lease may
authorize the City to make improvements to the leased premises under
terms to be determined by the parties to be consistent with the public
purpose or purposes of providing
office and administrative space for
the Department of Public Health.
Section 5. That the lease may provide for the City’s payment of appropriate utility and other operating
costs of the leased premises.
Section 6. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain any terms and conditions as are required to protect the
interests of the City.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Health, the Director of Law,
and other appropriate City officials
are authorized to execute any other
documents and certificates, and take
any other actions which may be necessary or appropriate to effect the
lease authorized by this ordinance.
Section 8. That the Director of
Public
Health
is
authorized
to
extend the term of Contract No.
62484 with Mural Properties, on a
month-to-month basis for a period
not to exceed one year, for office
and administrative space and associated parking lots for the Department of Public Health.
Section 9. That the costs of the
lease and month-to month extensions shall be paid from Fund Nos.

805

33
01-500101-636000, 10 SF 804, 19 SF 475,
13 SF 158, 13 SF 178, and 13 SF 586,
Request No. 137789.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 19, 2006.
Effective April 21, 2006.

Ord. No. 613-06.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health
to apply for and accept a grant from
Case Western Reserve University
for the Case Western Reserve Partnership Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $98,374, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from Case Western Reserve University to conduct the Case Western
Reserve Partnership Program; that
the Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the award letter and
summary for the grant contained in
the file described below.
Section 2. That the award letter
and summary for the grant, File No.
613-06-A, made a part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance Committee of
this Council at the public hearing on
this legislation and shall not be
changed without additional legislative authority, is approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 19, 2006.
Effective April 21, 2006.

34
Ord. No. 614-06.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health
to lease property known as 23600
Mercantile Road, Unit J, from Mercantile Associates for a term not to
exceed one year, for the public purpose of leasing space to store goods
necessary for the operation of the
Cleveland House of Corrections.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
requires certain space located at
23600 Mercantile Road, Unit J, in
Beachwood,
Ohio,
including
the
exclusive use of ten parking spaces,
and the non-exclusive use of common parking and loading areas, for
the public purpose of leasing space
to store goods necessary for the
operation of the Cleveland House of
Corrections; and
Whereas, Mercantile Associates
has proposed to lease the space to
the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Health is authorized to lease from
Mercantile Associates certain space
more fully described as follows:
approximately 5,400 square feet of
space located at 23600 Mercantile
Road, Unit J, Beachwood, Ohio,
including the exclusive use of ten
parking spaces, and the non-exclusive use of common parking and
loading areas (“Premises”).
Section 2. That the term of the
lease shall not exceed one year,
beginning April 1, 2006.
Section 3. That the rent for the
lease shall be a base rate of $3,200
per month, including utilities and
the Common Area Maintenance for
23600 Mercantile Road.
Section 4. That the lease may
authorize the City to make improvements to the lease premises under
terms to be determined by the parties consistent with the public purpose or purposes of leasing space to
store goods necessary for the operation of the Cleveland House of Corrections.
Section 5. That the lease may provide for the City’s payment of appropriate utility and other operating
costs of the leased premises.
Section 6. That the costs of the
lease shall be paid from Fund No.
01-500302-636000, Request No. 149803.
Section 7. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 8. That the Directors of
Public Health and Law, and other
appropriate City officials, are authorized to execute other documents
and certificates, and take other
actions as may be necessary or
appropriate
to
effect
the
lease
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all

The City Record
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 19, 2006.
Effective April 21, 2006.

Ord. No. 710-06.
By Council Members Polensek,
Turner, Kelley, Westbrook, Brady
and Dolan.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 2 of Ordinance No. 62606 passed April 3, 2006 as it pertains
to authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into an
agreement
with
the
Cleveland
Restoration Society for the Heritage
Home
Preservation
Program
through the use of Ward(s) 11, 1, 16,
18, 19 and 21 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 626-06 passed April 3, 2006
is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section. 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $71,500 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 626-06 passed April 3, 2006
is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 19, 2006.
Effective April 21, 2006.

Ord. No. 711-06.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with the Cleveland Church of
Christ Economic Development, Inc.
for the Nathan Hale Empowerment
Program through the use of Ward 3
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Cleveland Church of Christ
Economic Development, Inc. for the
Nathan Hale Empowerment Program for the public purpose of providing educational classes on con-

806

April 26, 2006
flict management to City of Cleveland residents through the use of
Ward
3
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $9,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 19, 2006.
Effective April 21, 2006.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Monday, April 24, 2006
1:00 p.m.
Joint — City Planning, Community and Economic Development, Public Utilities, Public Service and
Finance
Committees:
Present
in
Planning: Cimperman, Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Lewis, Zone,
Reed. Authorized Absence: Dolan,
Conwell.
Present in CDED: Pierce Scott,
Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair; Cimperman,
Cummins,
Coats,
Westbrook, Brady, Zone, Lewis.
Present in Utilities: Zone, Chair;
Reed, Vice Chair; Cleveland, Polensek, Cummins, Kelley, Westbrook,
Santiago. Authorized Absence: Dolan.
Present in Service: Brady, Chair;
Turner,
Vice
Chair;
Cleveland,
Polensek, Cummins, White, Santiago, Reed. Authorized Absence: Johnson.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair; Brady,
Westbrook, White, Zone, Coats, Brancatelli, Britt, Pierce Scott. Authorized Absence: Conwell.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: CANCELLED.
Tuesday, April 25, 2006
1:30 p.m.
Employment, Affirmative Action
and Training Committee: Present:
Lewis, Chair; Santiago, Vice Chair;
Turner, Coats. Authorized Absence:
Brancatelli, Johnson, Conwell.
Wednesday, April 26, 2006
10:00 a.m.
Public Safety Committee: Present:
Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice Chair;
Britt, Polensek, Coats, Kelley, Cummins, Turner, Santiago.

The City Record

April 26, 2006

35

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Deparment
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) & CHORE Program —
appropriating — CDBG (O 740-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782

Agreements
Cleveland Church of Christ Economic Development, Inc. — Nathan Hale
Empowerment Program — Community Development Dept. — Ward 3 NEF
(O 711-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home Preservation Program — Community
Development Dept. — amend Ord. 626-06 — Wards 11, 1, 16, 18, 19 & 21 NEF
(O 710-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Storefront Renovation Program — agreement with applicants — reimburse
eligible administrative costs — community development corporations
(O 745-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 783

Appropriations
Anti-predatory lending and foreclosure prevention assistance — appropriating —
CDBG — Consumer Affairs Dept. (O 743-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782
Fair Housing Program (expenses) — appropriating — CDBG — Community Relations Dept.
(O 739-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) & CHORE Program — appropriating —
CDBG (O 740-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782

Banners
Hessler Neighborhood Association — Hessler Street Fair (O 763-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 786
Mt. Olive Missionary Baptist Church — church’s 6th Annual Juneteenth
Celebration (O 766-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Campbell Road, 3455, (Ward 13) — Norfolk and Western Railroad, owner — appeal adopted on
4/19/06 (Doc. A-24-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792
Colgate Avenue, 6711, (Ward 17) — Neil T. Clough, owner — appeal resolved on
4/19/06 (Doc. A-21-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792
East 4th Street, 2042-44, (Ward 13) — Krause Project Partners, owners — appeal adopted
on 4/19/06 (Doc. A-20-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792
East 55th Street, 3018, (Ward 5) — Ian Abrams, owner — appeal resolved on 4/19/06
(Doc. A-18-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792
East 91st Street, 3915, (Ward 2) — M. Weingold & Company, owner — appeal adopted on
4/19/06 (Doc. A-22-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792
East 93rd Street, 3967, (Ward 2) — M. Weingold & Company, owner — appeal adopted on
4/19/06 (Doc. A-23-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792
Euclid Avenue, 1375, (Ward 13) — AHNB, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on 4/19/06
(Doc. A-35-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792
Lorain Avenue, 12029, (Ward 19) — Carol T. Sakoumagus, owner — appeal adopted on 4/19/06
(Doc. A-28-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792
St. Clair Avenue, 10548, (Ward 8) — AHNB, LLC, owner — appeal rescheduled to 05/03/06
on 4/19/06 (Doc. A-33-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792
Sycamore Street, 2000, (Ward 13) — Jacobs Investment Management Co., Inc., owner — appeal
resolved on 4/19/06 (Doc. A-62-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792
West 104th Street, 3044, (Ward 18) — Trust Properties, LLC c/o Michael
Boukzam, owner — appeal postponed for a later date on 4/19/06
(Doc. A-27-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792

807

The City Record

36

April 26, 2006

West 25th Street, 2132, (Ward 13) — United Properties c/o ZMDS, Inc., owner — appeal
adopted on 4/19/06 (Doc. A-16-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792
West 5th Street, 2317, (Ward 13) — Ryan P. Wach owner — appeal adopted on 4/19/06
(Doc. A-30-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792
Woodland Avenue, 4900, (Ward 5) — Harry Rock & Company, owner — appeal adopted on 4/19/06
(Doc. A-29-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792
Woodland Avenue, 9515, (a.k.a. 10420 Quincy Avenue), (Ward 6) — M.W. Acquisitions, owner —
appeal adopted on 4/19/06 (Doc. A-25-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Centralized Deicing Facility Common Use Pad (Phase III) — contract per Ord. 465-05
to Kenmore Construction Company, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 144-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Cable, pipe-type — contract per Ord. 1014-05 to W.A. Chester, L.L.C. — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 143-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Centralized Deicing Facility Common Use Pad (Phase III) — contract per Ord. 465-05
to Kenmore Construction Company, Inc. — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport (BOC Res. 144-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Centralized Deicing Facility Common Use Pad (Phase III) — contract per Ord. 465-05
to Kenmore Construction Company, Inc. — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 144-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Welders and aerial boom lifts — contract per Ord. 829-05 to United Rentals
(North America), Inc. (BOC Res. 145-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Cable, pipe-type — contract per Ord. 1014-05 to W.A. Chester, L.L.C. —
Division of Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 143-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Cable, pipe-type — contract per Ord. 1014-05 to W.A. Chester, L.L.C. —
Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 143-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790
Welders and aerial boom lifts — contract per Ord. 829-05 to United
Rentals (North America), Inc. — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 145-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Churchill Avenue, 10518, (Ward 9) — Rysar Properties, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 4/24/2006 (Cal. 06-52) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792
East 105th Street, 1082-98, (Ward 8) — City of Cleveland Landbank, owner and Maher Ali,
prospective purchaser — appeal heard on 4/24/06 (Cal. 06-22) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 791
Fulton Parkway, 4261, (Ward 15) — Downing Memphis, LLC and Michael Downing, owner, —
appeal heard on 4/24/2006 (Cal. 06-55) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 791
Glendale Avenue, 14008, (Ward 1) — Marilyn Moore, owner — appeal postponed to 5/05/06 on
5/1/06 (Cal. 06-57). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 791
Harvard Avenue, 5712, (Ward 12) — Kimberly McDermott, owner, and Barbara Bradford, tenant —
appeal denied and adopted on 4/24/06 (Cal. 06-38) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792

808

April 26, 2006

The City Record

37

Jay Avenue, 2925, (Ward 13) — Jay & 30 Project, LLC, owner and Douglas Wahl, agent —
appeal withdrawn on 4/24/06 (Cal. 06-53) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 791
Puritas Avenue, 17102, (Ward 21) — Terry Hengoed, owner, — appeal heard on 4/24/2006
(Cal. 06-56) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 791
Union Avenue, 11317, (Ward 3) — Jeremiah Baptist Church and Deacon Phillips, owner —
appeal granted and adopted on 4/24/06 (Cal. 06-54) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
2517 Jay Avenue, 2517, (Ward 13) — Gormark Developers Inc., owner, and Matt Solomon,
agent, — appeal to be heard on 5/8/06 (Cal. 06-62) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 791
College Avenue, 801, (Ward 13) — John Krohe owner, — appeal to be heard on 5/8/06
(Cal. 06-63) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 791
East 143rd Street, 3249, (Ward 4) — Rashiqa Abukhalil, owner, — appeal to be heard
on 5/8/06 (Cal. 06-61) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 791
Lorain Avenue, 16210, (Ward 21) — The West park Community School, owner, and
Constellation Communtiy School c/o Gerald Preseren, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/8/06 (Cal. 06-64). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 791

Building and Housing Department

Memphis School — demolition and remediation — bids — Ward 16 NEF
(O 757-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 785

Case Western Reserve University
Case Western Reserve Partnership Program — grant — Public Health Dept.
(O 613-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805

City of Cleveland Bids
Bunker gear suits, proximity pants, coats, hoods, helmets, suspenders and boots —
Department of Port Control — per Ord. 247-06 — bid due May 24, 2006
(advertised 4/26/2006 and 5/3/2006). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 794
Cushman equipment parts for golf courses — Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties — Division of Recreation — per Ord. 816-05 — bid
due May 12, 2006 (advertised 4/26/2006 and 5/3/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
Deicing chemicals — Department of Port Control — per Ord. 248-06 —
bid due May 10, 2006 (advertised 4/19/2006 and 4/26/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
Gasoline — Department of Public Service — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance — per Ord. 194-06 — bid due May 10, 2006
(advertised 4/19/2006 and 4/26/2006). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
Jacobsen mower parts for golf courses — Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties — Division of Recreation — per Ord. 816-05 — bid due May
12, 2006 (advertised 4/26/2006 and 5/3/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
On-line Check Generation Fold-n-Seal System, including installation
and maintenance — Department of Finance — per Ord. — bid due May 4, 2006
(advertised 4/19/2006 and 4/26/2006). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
Painting of streetside elements — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 1634-05 — bid due May 3, 2006
(advertised 4/19/2006 and 4/26/2006). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
Pipe repair clamps — Department of Public Utilities — Division of
Water — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 — bid due May 18, 2006
(advertised 4/26/2006 and 5/3/2006). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
Pipe repair couplings — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Water — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 — bid due May 11, 2006
(advertised 4/19/2006 and 4/26/2006). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
Quicklime — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water —
per C.O. Sec. 129.24 — bid due May 26, 2006
(advertised 4/19/2006 and 4/26/2006). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
Safety equipment required for OSHA regulations — Department
of Public Utilities — per Ord. 1028-05 — bid due May 18, 2006
(advertised 4/26/2006 and 5/3/2006). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793

809

The City Record

38

April 26, 2006

Snow removal and heavy duty equipment with operators, rental of —
Department of Port Control — per Ord. 252-06 — bid due May 10, 2006
(advertised 4/19/2006 and 4/26/2006). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
Toro mower parts for golf courses — Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties — Division of Recreation — per Ord. 816-05 — bid due May
12, 2006 (advertised 4/26/2006 and 5/3/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
Tree lawn repair — Department of Public Utilities — per Ord.
1024-05 — bid due May 18, 2006 (advertised 4/26/2006 and 5/3/2006) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 794
Water meter parts — Department of Public Utilities — Division of
Water — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 — bid due May 12, 2006
(advertised 4/19/2006 and 4/26/2006). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793

City Planning Commission
Building height requirements — within the Midtown Mixed-Use District —
amend Sec. 344.07 — amend Ord. 1785-05 — zoning
(O 161-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 796

Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority
Flats East Bank Community Plan area — City’s payment —
various utility and infrastructure improvements
(O 655-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790
Flats East Development, LLC & Cleveland-Cuyahoga Port Authority —
development agreement — residential units & commercial improvement
(O 579-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 789-789

Cleveland Clinic Foundation
Cleveland Clinic Nurses Fun Run, 2nd Annual — permit — Hermes Sports & Events
(O 760-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 785

Cleveland Public Power
Flats East Bank Community Plan area — City’s payment — various utility and infrastructure
improvements (O 655-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790
Substation equipment — batteries, switchgear, transformers, circuit breakers — maintain,
repair, replace (O 495-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804
Trees — trim around electrical wires and streetlights
(O 295-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803

Cleveland Municipal Court
Uniform clothing for security bailiffs — purchase (O 734-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776

Codified Ordinances
Building height requirements — within the Midtown Mixed-Use
District — amend Sec. 344.07 — amend Ord. 1785-05 — zoning
(O 161-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 796
Employment of health care professionals for employee examinations — new Sec. 171.03
(O 746-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 784
Golf course fees — amend Sect. 133.29 (O 738-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780
Lead hazards — amend Sects. 240.01, 240.06, 240.08, 240.99, 365.02, 365.05, and 365.07
(O 736-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776
Rental of sites and purchase of food, refreshments, and mementos — amend Sec.
123.031 (O 747-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 784

Commemoration
31st Anniversary of the Fall of Saigon (R 777-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776

810

April 26, 2006

The City Record

39

Community Development
Anti-predatory lending and foreclosure prevention assistance — appropriating —
CDBG — Consumer Affairs Dept. (O 743-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782
Cleveland Action to Support Housing, Inc. (CASH)) — contract — administrative costs —
housing rehabilitation, new housing construction & commercial redevelopment loan
programs (O 741-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782
Cleveland Church of Christ Economic Development, Inc. — Nathan Hale
Empowerment Program — Ward 3 NEF (O 711-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home Preservation Program —
amend Ord. 626-06 — Wards 11, 1, 16, 18, 19 & 21 NEF
(O 710-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Community garden program — contract — non-profit agencies
(O 742-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782
Community Reinvestment Area — Downtown area — establish — amend Ord. 2831-86
(O 583-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790
Fair Housing Program (expenses) — appropriating — CDBG — Community Relations Dept.
(O 739-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782
Harvard Community Service Center — Community Bridge Building Program — Ward 1 NEF
(O 751-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 785
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) & CHORE Program — appropriating — CDBG
(O 740-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782
St. Michael Hospital (Broadway neighborhood) — donation, improvement & reuse — amend Ord.
2152-03 (O 744-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 783
Storefront Renovation Program — agreement with applicants — reimburse eligible
administrative costs — community development corporations
(O 745-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 783
William E. Sanders Family Life Center, Inc., & Harvard Community Services Center —
Neighborhood Community Social Support Program — Ward 1 NEF
(O 752-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 785

Community Development Block Grant
Anti-predatory lending and foreclosure prevention assistance — appropriating —
CDBG — Consumer Affairs Dept. (O 743-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782
Fair Housing Program (expenses) — appropriating — CDBG — Community Relations Dept.
(O 739-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) & CHORE Program — appropriating — CDBG
(O 740-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782

Community Reinvestment Area
Downtown area — establish — amend Ord. 2831-86 (O 583-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790

Community Relations
Fair Housing Program (expenses) — appropriating — CDBG (O 739-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782

Condolences
Fortuna, Joseph L. (R 750-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775
Willis, Sr., Walter R. (R 774-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775

Contracts
Cleveland Action to Support Housing, Inc. (CASH)) — contract — administrative costs —
housing rehabilitation, new housing construction & commercial redevelopment loan
programs — Community Development Dept. (O 741-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782
Community garden program — contract — non-profit agencies (O 742-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782
Harvard Community Service Center — Community Bridge Building Program —
Ward 1 NEF (O 751-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 785
Office space and parking lots spaces — lease — Mural Properties — Contract No. 62484 —
Public Health Dept.(O 612-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
St. Michael Hospital (Broadway neighborhood) — donation, improvement & reuse —
amend Ord. 2152-03 (O 744-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 783

811

The City Record

40

April 26, 2006

Consumer Affairs Department
Anti-predatory lending and foreclosure prevention assistance — appropriating — CDBG
(O 743-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782

Correction Division
Mercantile Rd., 23600, Unit U — lease property — Mercantile Associates — store goods
(O 614-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806

Cuyahoga County
Cuyahoga County Public Health Collaborative Program — grant — Cuyahoga County
Board of Health — Executive Information Systems LLC — license updates — SAS
(O 611-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804

Dominion East Ohio
Natural gas & natural gas transportation services — purchase — Dominion East Ohio
Gas Company (O 297-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803

Economic Development Department
Dolloff Road Municipal Parking Lot — repair and upgrade — economic assistance —
Slavic Village Development (O 748-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 784
Flats East Development, LLC & Cleveland-Cuyahoga Port Authority —
development agreement — residential units & commercial improvement
(O 579-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 789-789

Fees
Golf course fees — amend Sect. 133.29 (O 738-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780

Finance Department
Flats East Bank Community Plan area — City’s payment — public improvements
(O 656-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790
Membership dues — payment — various professional organizations
(O 600-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804
Uniform clothing for security bailiffs — purchase — Cleveland Municipal Court
(O 734-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776

Flats District
Community Reinvestment Area — Downtown area — establish — amend Ord. 2831-86
(O 583-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790
Cleveland-Cuyahoga Port Authority & Flats East Development, LLC —
development agreement — residential units & commercial improvement
(O 579-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 789-789
Public Improvements- City’s payment — Flats East Bank Community Plan area
(O 656-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790
Utility and infrastructure improvements- City’s payment — Flats East Bank
Community Plan area (O 655-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790

Grants
Case Western Reserve Partnership Program — Case Western Reserve University
(O 613-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Cuyahoga County Public Health Collaborative Program — grant — Cuyahoga County
Board of Health — Executive Information Systems LLC — license updates — SAS
(O 611-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804
Gang Resistance Education and Training Program 2006 — U.S. Department of Justice, Bureau
of Justice Assistance (O 454-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
Safe Communities, Targeted Enforcement Program — University Hospitals
(O 2205-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 796

812

April 26, 2006

The City Record

41

Health Department
Case Western Reserve Partnership Program — Case Western Reserve University
(O 613-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Cuyahoga County Public Health Collaborative Program — grant — Cuyahoga County
Board of Health — Executive Information Systems LLC — license updates — SAS
(O 611-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804
Employment of health care professionals for employee examinations — new Sec. 171.03
(O 746-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 784
Mercantile Rd., 23600, Unit U — lease property — Mercantile Associates — store goods
(O 614-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Office space and parking lots spaces — lease — Mural Properties — Contract No. 62484 —
Public Health Dept.(O 612-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805

House Bill
Rebuilding America’s Infrastructure — H.R. 5054 — Council’s support (R 717-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 796

Insurance
Helicopters (two) -Fuel, maintenance and aviation insurance — purchase — Police Division
(O 737-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780

Lead Paint
Lead hazards — amend Sects. 240.01, 240.06, 240.08, 240.99, 365.02, 365.05, and 365.07
(O 736-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776

Leases
Mercantile Rd., 23600, Unit U — lease property — Mercantile Associates — store goods —
House of Correction (O 614-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Office space and parking lots spaces — lease — Mural Properties — Contract No. 62484 —
Public Health Dept. (O 612-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805

Liquor Permits
Cedar Ave., 7002 — objection (Ward 5) (R 753-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
Cedar Ave., 7819-21 — objection — withdraw (Ward 6) (R 712-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 794
E. 185th St., 787-94 — transfer (Ward 11) (F 769-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775
E. 49th St., 1311 — objection (Ward 13) (R 714-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 794
Euclid Ave., 18029 — objection (Ward 10) (R 754-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 788
N. Marginal Rd., 4915 — objection (Ward 13) (R 713-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 794
Old River Rd., 1204 — objection (Ward 13) (R 758-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 789
Old River Rd., 1204 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 767-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775
Scranton Rd., 2572 — objection — withdraw (Ward 14) (R 755-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 788
St. Clair Ave., 13302 — objection (Ward 10) (R 716-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 795
St. Clair Ave., 5238 — objection (Ward 13) (R 715-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 795
St. Clair Ave., 6524 — objection (Ward 13) (R 759-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 789
St. Clair Ave., 6524 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 768-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home Preservation Program — Community
Development Dept. — amend Ord. 626-06 — Wards 11, 1, 16, 18, 19 & 21
(O 710-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Cleveland Church of Christ Economic Development, Inc. — Nathan Hale
Empowerment Program — Ward 3 (O 711-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Harvard Community Service Center — Community Bridge Building Program — Ward 1
(O 751-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 785
Memphis School — demolition and remediation — bids — Building and Housing Department —
Ward 16 NEF (O 757-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 785
William E. Sanders Family Life Center, Inc., & Harvard Community Services
Center — Neighborhood Community Social Support Program — Ward 1
(O 752-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 785

813

The City Record

42

April 26, 2006

Oath of Office
Johnson, Kim — Commissioner of Recreation (F 773-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Golf course fees — amend Sect. 133.29 (O 738-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780
Johnson, Kim — oath of office — Commissioner of Recreation (F 773-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775
Public improvement (various department facilities) — Public Service Department
(O 735-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776
St. Michael Hospital (Broadway neighborhood) — donation, improvement & reuse —
amend Ord. 2152-03 (O 744-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 783

Permits
American Cancer Society Walk — American Cancer Society (O 762-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 786
Cleveland Clinic Nurses Fun Run, 2nd Annual — Hermes Sports & Events (O 760-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 785
Westside Charity Foot Race — Hermes Sports (O 764-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 786
World Congress of Endourology Run, The — Hermes Sports & Events (O 761-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 785

Personnel Department
Rental of sites and purchase of food, refreshments, and mementos — amend Sec.
123.031 (O 747-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 784

Police Division
Fuel, maintenance and aviation insurance (two helicopters) — purchase — Police Division
(O 737-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780

Recognition
Beasley, Teresa M. (R 775-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776
Hall, LISW, Stacey R. (R 776-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776

Recreation Division
Johnson, Kim — oath of office — Commissioner of Recreation (F 773-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Cleveland Community Voice Mail Day — April 26, 2006 (R 749-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
Ohio Jobs Ready Sites Program — fair criteria — urging — Ohio Department of Development
(R 756-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 788
Rebuilding America’s Infrastructure — H..R. 5054 — Council’s support
(R 717-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 796

Safety Department
Fuel, maintenance and aviation insurance (two helicopters) — purchase — Police Division
(O 737-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780
Gang Resistance Education and Training Program 2006 — U.S. Department of Justice, Bureau
of Justice Assistance (O 454-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
Safe Communities, Targeted Enforcement Program — University Hospitals
(O 2205-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 796

Service Department
American Cancer Society Walk — permit — American Cancer Society
(O 762-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 786
Cleveland Clinic Nurses Fun Run, 2nd Annual — permit — Hermes Sports & Events
(O 760-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 785
Flats East Bank Community Plan area — City’s payment — various utility and infrastructure
improvements (O 655-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790
Glenville Waste Station renovations — contract no. 65161 — Service Department
(F 771-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775

814

April 26, 2006

The City Record

43

Hessler Neighborhood Association — banner — Hessler Street Fair
(O 763-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 786
Michael R. White Miler Fun Run, 19th Annual — permit — Michael R. White Elementary School
(O 765-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 786
Mt. Olive Missionary Baptist Church — banners — church’s 6th Annual Juneteenth
Celebration (O 766-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
Parks, Recreation and Properties Department facilities — public improvement
(O 735-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776
Purchasing Division renovations — contract no. 65242 — Service Department
(F 770-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775
Ridge Road Overhead Door Replacement Project — contract no. 64352 — Service Department
(F 772-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775
Westside Charity Foot Race — permit — Hermes Sports
(O 764-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 786
World Congress of Endourology Run, The — permit — Hermes Sports & Events
(O 761-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 785

Slavic Village Development Corporation
Dolloff Road Municipal Parking Lot — repair and upgrade — economic assistance
(O 748-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 784

St. Michael Hospital
Broadway neighborhood — donation, improvement & reuse — amend Ord. 2152-03 —
Community Development and Parks, Recreation and Properties Departments
(O 744-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 783

Statement of Work Acceptance
Glenville Waste Station renovations — contract no. 65161 — Service Department
(F 771-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775
Purchasing Division renovations — contract no. 65242 — Service Department
(F 770-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775
Ridge Road Overhead Door Replacement Project — contract no. 64352 — Service Department
(F 772-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775

Tree Trimming
Trees — trim around electrical wires and streetlights — Cleveland Public Power
(O 295-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803

Utilities Department
Flats East Bank Community Plan area — City’s payment — various utility and infrastructure
improvements (O 655-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790
Natural gas & natural gas transportation services — purchase — Dominion East Ohio
Gas Company (O 297-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
Substation equipment — batteries, switchgear, transformers, circuit breakers — maintain,
repair, replace (O 495-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804
Trees — trim around electrical wires and streetlights — Cleveland Public Power
(O 295-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803

Ward 01
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home Preservation Program — Community
Development Dept. — amend Ord. 626-06 — Wards 11, 1, 16, 18, 19 & 21 NEF
(O 710-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Harvard Community Service Center — Community Bridge Building Program — NEF
(O 751-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 785
William E. Sanders Family Life Center, Inc., & Harvard Community Services Center —
Neighborhood Community Social Support Program — NEF
(O 752-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 785

815

The City Record

44

April 26, 2006

Ward 03
Cleveland Church of Christ Economic Development, Inc. — Nathan Hale
Empowerment Program — Community Development Dept. — NEF
(O 711-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Mt. Olive Missionary Baptist Church — banners — church’s 6th Annual Juneteenth
Celebration (O 766-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787

Ward 05
Cedar Ave., 7002 — objection — liquor permit (R 753-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787

Ward 06
Cedar Ave., 7819-21 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit
(R 712-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 794
Cleveland Clinic Nurses Fun Run, 2nd Annual — permit — Hermes Sports & Events
(O 760-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 785
World Congress of Endourology Run, The — permit — Hermes Sports & Events
(O 761-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 785

Ward 09
Hessler Neighborhood Association — banner — Hessler Street Fair
(O 763-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 786

Ward 10
Euclid Ave., 18029 — objection — liquor permit (R 754-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 788
St. Clair Ave., 13302 — objection — liquor permit (R 716-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 795

Ward 11
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home Preservation Program — Community
Development Dept. — amend Ord. 626-06 — Wards 11, 1, 16, 18, 19 & 21 NEF
(O 710-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
E. 185th St., 787-91 — transfer — liquor permit (F 769-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775

Ward 12
Dolloff Road Municipal Parking Lot — repair and upgrade — economic assistance — Slavic
Village Development (O 748-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 784

Ward 13
American Cancer Society Walk — permit — American Cancer Society
(O 762-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 786
Community Reinvestment Area — Downtown area — establish — amend Ord. 2831-86
(O 583-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790
E. 49th St., 1311 — objection — liquor permit (R 714-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 794
Flats East Bank Community Plan area — City’s payment — various utility and infrastructure
improvements (O 655-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790
Flats East Bank Community Plan area — City’s payment — public improvements
(O 656-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790
Flats East Development, LLC & Cleveland-Cuyahoga Port Authority —
development agreement — residential units & commercial improvement
(O 579-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 789-789
N. Marginal Rd., 4915 — objection — liquor permit (R 713-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 794
Old River Rd., 1204 — objection — liquor permit (R 758-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 789
Old River Rd., 1204 — transfer — liquor permit (F 767-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775
St. Clair Ave., 5238 — objection — liquor permit (R 715-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 795
St. Clair Ave., 6524 — objection — liquor permit (R 759-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 789
St. Clair Ave., 6524 — transfer — liquor permit (F 768-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775
Westside Charity Foot Race — permit — Hermes Sports (O 764-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 786

816

April 26, 2006

The City Record

45

Ward 14
Scranton Rd., 2572 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit
(R 755-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 788

Ward 16
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home Preservation Program — Community
Development Dept. — amend Ord. 626-06 — Wards 11, 1, 16, 18, 19 & 21 NEF
(O 710-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Memphis School — demolition and remediation — bids — Building and Housing Department —
NEF (O 757-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 785

Ward 18
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home Preservation Program — Community
Development Dept. — amend Ord. 626-06 — Wards 11, 1, 16, 18, 19 & 21 NEF
(O 710-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806

Ward 19
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home Preservation Program — Community
Development Dept. — amend Ord. 626-06 — Wards 11, 1, 16, 18, 19 & 21 NEF
(O 710-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806

Ward 21
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home Preservation Program — Community
Development Dept. — amend Ord. 626-06 — Wards 11, 1, 16, 18, 19 & 21 NEF
(O 710-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806

Water Division
Flats East Bank Community Plan area — City’s payment — various utility and infrastructure
improvements (O 655-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790

Zoning
Building height requirements — within the Midtown Mixed-Use District —
amend Sec. 344.07 — amend Ord. 1785-05 — zoning (O 161-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 796

Zoning Code
Building height requirements — within the Midtown Mixed-Use District — amend Sec. 344.07 —
amend Ord. 1785-05 — zoning (O 161-06). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 796

817

