The City Record
O fficial Publication of the City of Cleve l a n d

April the Seventh, Nineteen Hundred and Ninety-Nine

Mayor
Michael R. White
President of Council
Jay Westbrook
Clerk of Council
Cecelia R. Huffman
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Odelia V. Robinson
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
William W. Patmon
Craig E. Willis
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Michael C. O’Malley
Timothy J. Melena
Jay Westbrook
Joseph J. Zone
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

RECYCLE...........................Save the Future
Printed on Recycled Paper.....Council Cares

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notices
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
3
7
11
11
12
14
14
14
15
56
56

FIRST-CLASS MAIL
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

First Class Mail

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Jay Westbrook
Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ..............................................15601 Lotus Drive
44128
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
44105
Odelia V. Robinson................................3448 East 123rd Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
44115
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
44120
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
44103
William W. Patmon ...................................867 East Boulevard
44108
Craig E. Willis .........................................11906 Beulah Avenue
44106
Roosevelt Coats.........................................1775 Cliffview Road
44112
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
44105
Joe Cimperman........................................3053 West 12th Street
44113
Nelson Cintron, Jr.........................................3032 Vega Avenue
44113
Merle R. Gordon.........................................1813 Tampa Avenue
44109
Michael C. O’Malley................................6710 Brookside Drive
44144
Timothy J. Melena ........................6110 West Clinton Avenue
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................10513 Clifton Boulevard
44102
Joseph J. Zone........................................3323 West 130th Street
44111
Martin J. Sweeney ................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Michael A. Dolan ..................................16519 West Park Road
44111
Clerk of Council – Cecelia R. Huffman, 216 City Hall, 664–2840.
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin.
MAYOR–Michael R. White
LaVonne Sheffield-McClain, Chief of Staff,Executive Assistant for Policy
Barry Withers, Executive Assistant for Administration
Judith Zimomra, Executive Assistant for Service
Kenneth Silliman, Executive Assistant for Economic Development
Laura Ann Williams, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
Milan T. Polacek, Executive Assistant for Legislative Affairs

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

DEPT. OF LAW – Cornell P. Carter, Director, Lessie M. Milto n,
Chief Counsel, Room 106
George A. Pace, Jr., Chief Asst. Prosecutor; Criminal Branch – Justice
Center, 8th Flr., Court Towers, 1200 Ontario Street
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Martin L. Carmody, Director, Room 104; Carlean
Alford, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS – Accounts – Gayle Goodwin Smith, Commissioner, Room 19
City Treasury – Mary Christine Jackman,Treasurer, Room 115
Assessments and Licenses – Robert J. Schneider, Commissioner,
Room 122
Purchases and Supplies – William A. Moon, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – James D. Smith, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside
Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
Financial Reporting and Control – Robert Dolan, Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – Hamid Manteghi, Commissioner, 1404 E.
9th St.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael Konicek, Director, 1201 Lakeside
Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Morry Blech, Commissioner
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – Frank Schilling, Acting Chief.
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Solomon F. Balraj, Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Mark D. Vanloh, Commissioner
Burke Lakefront Airport – Michael C. Barth, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS – Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Acting
Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue.
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Engineering and Construction – JoMarie Wasik, Acting Commissioner,
Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Acting Commissioner,
Harvard Yards
Architecture – Paul Burik, Acting Commissioner, Room 517
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Michelle Whitlow, Acting Director, Mural
Building, 1925 St. Clair Avenue
DIVISIONS – Health – Joyce Atwell-Joyce, Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Environment – Robin Puriani-Rogers, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Avenue
Correction – Thomas Hardin, Commissioner, Cooley Farms, 4041 Northfield Road
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY –Henry Guzmán, Director, Room 230.
DIVISIONS \ Police \ Martin L. Flask, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300
Ontario Street
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Traffic Engineering & Parking – Mark Ricchiuto, Acting Commissioner,
4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Bruce Shade, Commissioner, 1708 South
Pointe Drive
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Nicholas P. Jackson,
Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVISIONS – Convention Center & Stadium– James Glending,
Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Property Management – Vernon Robinson, Commissioner, East 49th &
Harvard

Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Acting Commissioner, Public
Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Acting Commissioner,
Public Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Recreation – Michael Cox, Acting Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501
N. Marginal Road, Burke Lakefront Airport
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Linda M. Hudecek, Director,

3rd Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS – Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Donald T. Moss, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Lisa Thomas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Jeffrey K.
Patterson, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Christopher P. Warren,

Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Susan E. Axelrod, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Dennis D. Dove, Acting

Director; Mayor Michael R. White, Chairman Ex–Officio; Mary Adele
Springman, Vice–Chairman; Councilmen Michael Polensek and Edward
Rybka, City Council Representatives; Muqit Abdul Sabur, Louise Boddie,
Charles E. McBee, Larry C. Liou, John Gallo, Emmett Saunders, Mary
Jan Buckshot, Sr. Joaquina Carrion, Kathryn M. Hall, Hasan Muheisen,
Barbara S. Rosenthal, Henry Simon.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Freddie J. Fenderson,
President; Timothy J. Cosgrove, Vice President; Cynthia Sullivan,

Secretary; Margaret Hopkins, Member, Earl Preston, Member.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Michael R. White, President; Betsy
Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; __________________, Director; President of Council

Jay Westbrook.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol Johnson, Chairman;

Members; Chris Carmody, Anna Chatman, Ozell Dobbins, Tony Petkovsek,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room

516, J. F. Denk, Chairman; J. Bowes, James Williams, Alternate Members
– D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, Arthur Saunders, J.S.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Cornell P.

Carter, President; Finance Director Martin L. Carmody, Jr., Secretary;
Council President Jay Westbrook.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto;

Law Director Cornell P. Carter; Councilman Roosevelt Coats.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Cornell

P. Carter; Utilities Director Michael Konicek; Council President Jay
Westbrook.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Hunter Morrison, Director;
Anthony J. Coyne, Acting Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke,
Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean Pinkney, Rev. Edward D. Small,
Councilman Odelia V. Robinson.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Cornell P. Carter; Chairman;
Finance Director Martin L. Carmody, Jr.; Council President Jay Westbrook;
Councilman Roosevelt Coats; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman;
Donald Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond
Ossovicki, Chief Electrical Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the
Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman; Earl
S. Bumgarner, Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, _______________, Chief
Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Richard Schanfarber,
Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; James Gibans, Sandra Morgan,
Hunter Morrison, Kenneth Nobilio, Theodore Sande, Galen Schuerlein,
Randall Shorr, Councilman Craig E. Willis, Councilman Joe Cimperman,
Robert Keiser, Executive Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT JUSTICE CENTER–1200 ONTARIO
CENTRAL SCHEDULING DEPARTMENT
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Colleen C. Cooney
14A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Sean C. Gallagher
12B
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
14C
Judge Kathleen A. Keough
12C
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
13A
Judge Gerald F. Sweeney
13D
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
12A
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Linda M. DeLillo–Court Administrator,
Robert C. Townsend, II–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer,
Michelle L. Paris–Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

CITY COUNCIL
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.25 per month
Address all communications to

10:00 A.M.—Aviation & Transportation Committee: Westbrook, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice Chairman; Cimperman, Dolan, Lewis, Patmon, White.
10:00 A.M.—Public Safety Committee: Coats, Chairman; Zone, Vice
Chairman; Gordon, Jackson, Jones,
Melena, O’Malley, White, Willis.

CECELIA R. HUFFMAN
Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M.—Public Utilities Committee: Willis, Chairman; Coats, Vice
Chairman;
Britt,
Jones,
Melena,
O’Malley, Robinson, Rybka, Sweeney.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Robinson, Chairman; Cimperman, Vice Chairman; Dolan, Jackson, O’Malley, White, Willis.

1998-2001
MONDAY—Alternating
9:30 A.M.—Public Parks, Property
&
Recreation
Committee:
Jones,
Chairman; White, Vice Chairman;
Britt, Polensek, Sweeney, Willis,
Zone.
9:30 A.M.—Public Health Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Cimperman,
Vice
Chairman;
Britt,
Cintron,
Dolan, Jackson, Robinson.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
NO MEETING

THE CALENDAR
The following measure will be on
its final passage at the next meeting:

MONDAY—Alternating

ORDINANCE

11:00 A.M.—Public Service Committee:
Sweeney, Chairman;
Melena,
Vice Chairman; Britt, Cintron, Johnson, Jones, O’Malley, Patmon, Polensek.
11:00 A.M.—Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
White,
Chairman;
Cintron,
Vice
Chairman;Gordon, Johnson, Lewis,
O’Malley, Rybka.

Ord. No. 1143-98.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to enter into an
agreement with The City of Cleveland and Omni Outdoor & Company
Limited Partnership, or its designee,
to develop a system of informational kiosks to assist both tourists and
local residents visiting cultural and
other
attractions
in
Cleveland’s
neighborhoods and downtown, designating the programs for royalties
received from that kiosk system,
granting encroachment permits and
outlining other aspects of the kiosk
system.
Whereas, the number of cultural
and
other
attractions
to
both
tourists and local residents has
increased in Cleveland’s neighborhoods and downtown over the past
decade,
causing
an
increase
in
pedestrian and other traffic in these
areas;
Whereas, directional and pathfinding maps would be beneficial to
these pedestrians and other travellers;
Whereas, City officials have been
working with a company to develop
a system of informational kiosks for
Cleveland;

MONDAY
2:00
P.M.—Finance
Committee:
Johnson, Chairman; Westbrook, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Gordon,
Lewis, Melena, Patmon, Robinson,
Sweeney, Willis.
TUESDAY
9:00 A.M.—Community and Economic
Development
Committee:
Jackson, Chairman; Robinson, Vice
Chairman;
Cimperman,
Cintron,
Coats,
Gordon,
Jones,
Lewis,
Rybka.
1:30 P.M.—Legislation Committee:
Zone,
Chairman;
Johnson,
Vice
Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Jackson, Rybka, Westbrook.

Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any other ordinance or Codified
Ordinance
to
the
contrary,
the
Mayor is hereby authorized to enter
into an Agreement with Omni Outdoor & Company Limited Partnership, or its designee, for the design,
construction, installation and maintenance of a network of kiosks providing directional and other information to be located throughout the
City.
Section 2. That notwithstanding
any other ordinance or Codified
Ordinance
to
the
contrary,
the
Agreement authorized by Section 1
of this ordinance shall be substantially in the form as follows:
AGREEMENT BY AND BETWEEN
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND
AND
OMNI OUTDOOR & COMPANY
LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
THIS AGREEMENT (“Agreement”)
is made this _____ day of _______,
1998, by and between THE CITY OF
CLEVELAND (“City” or “Cleveland”),
a municipal corporation organized
and existing under Article XVIII of
the Ohio Constitution, and OMNI
OUTDOOR & COMPANY LIMITED
PARTNERSHIP
(“Company”),
a
duly organized limited partnership.
Whereas, Cleveland desires a network of directional and informational kiosks to be located throughout the City to provide information
to pedestrians and other travellers
about the City and its cultural and
other attractions;
Whereas, the Company has proposed to develop, design, construct,
install and maintain a network of
directional and informational kiosks
for the City of Cleveland;
Now therefore, in consideration of
the
mutual
covenants
contained
herein,
Cleveland
and
Company
agree as follows:
1. PURPOSE
1.1 Cleveland shall allow, pending
the appropriate permits, the Company to install on an exclusive basis
in the City a network of a maximum
of 195 kiosks, subject to the option
set out in Section 2.4 herein (“Network”), at those locations agreed to
by the City and Company that satisfy the location criteria stated in Section 4 herein. The initial locations
shall be substantially in accordance
with the locations identified in
Exhibit “A.” [Exhibit A is contained
in Council File No. 1143-98-A.]

2. KIOSKS
2.1 The Company shall assume the
costs of designing, manufacturing
and
installing
the
Network
of
kiosks (maximum of 195 kiosks or
295 if option exercised) at only the
locations
identified
in
attached
Exhibit A, provided that each location shall satisfy the location criteria stated in section 4.3 herein.
2.2 The Company shall obtain all
required permits from the City, prior
to construction of the kiosks. The
Company shall also obtain, prior to
construction, approval of the drawings and the design of the kiosks.
The City may require, at the Company’s
expense,
reasonable
and
required changes to such drawings
and
design
before
their
final
approval.
2.3 The Company shall submit to
the City, for approval a prototype of
each type of kiosk.
2.4 The City acknowledges that
the Company would like to expand
the Network by one hundred (100)
kiosks in the six (6) years following the execution of the Agreement.
However, Company understands and
agrees that any expansion whatsoever shall be subject to the approval
of the City at the time of the proposed expansion. It is understood
that any additional kiosk shall be
located on a site which is mutually
agreed to between the City and the
Company, provided that each new
location shall satisfy the location
criteria stated in section 4.3 herein.
3. MATERIALS
3.1 The kiosks shall be manufactured and installed by suppliers and
with materials selected by the Company but approved by the City. The
Company shall use its best efforts
to use Cleveland and local suppliers
and materials. However, all suppliers shall be located in the United
States and all materials shall be
purchased in the United States.
3.2 The materials used in the construction process shall be new and
according to the specifications contained in the drawings.
3.3 If the Company wishes to substitute materials used in the manufacturing of the principal components of the kiosks with other materials, the Company shall request the
approval of the City and provide
appropriate specifications and details. The City shall have final
authority to approve or disapprove
the substitutions of materials. The
City shall inform the Company of its
decision within thirty (30) days of
the receipt of all the documents
requested by the City.
4. INSTALLATION AND LOCATION
4.1 The kiosks shall be installed by
the Company or its representatives in
conformity with all municipal, state
and federal regulations and laws.
4.2 The Company shall assume all
of the installation costs and all other
costs required to displace or alter
the infrastructure in order to permit
the Company to install a kiosk.
4.3 Kiosks shall be located so that
there is a clear zone of four (4) feet
around all sides of each kiosk,
except for any side which faces a
street. There must be a clear zone
of two (2) feet from any curb, measured from the back of the curb. The
width
of
unobstructed
walkway
around any kiosk shall be ten (10)
feet in the Central Business District
and six (6) feet in all other districts.
The minimum distance of any kiosk
from a handicap curb ramp, utility
pole, tree, fire hydrant or stand pipe

shall be five (5) feet. Kiosks shall
not be located on any existing utility chase. Kiosks must be located in,
and centered in, the amenity strip
where one exists. Kiosks shall not
be located in curb radii at intersections. Kiosks shall not be located
immediately in front of building
entrances so as to impede ingress or
egress.
Kiosks
shall
not
block
motorist sight lines at intersections.
Kiosks shall not block motorists’
view of regulatory signs, traffic signals, or street name signs.
4.4 The Director of Public Service
or the Director of Public Safety may
vary any location requirement over
which either may have jurisdiction
so long as the variation will not
compromise public safety.
4.5 At least three (3) kiosks shall
be located in each ward of the City.
The locations and designs of all
kiosks located outside of the Central
Business District shall be approved
by the relevant ward’s councilmember in writing prior to installation.
Furthermore, a councilmember may
waive the right to at least three (3)
kiosks; however, the waived kiosks
may not be thereafter located in the
Central Business District.
5. ELECTRIFICATION
5.1 Each kiosk shall be lit up
twenty four (24) hours a day.
5.2 The supply of electricity to
each kiosk shall be underground.
5.3 The Company shall assume the
costs of the installation of and
charges for electrical service to
each kiosk.
5.4 The City shall facilitate negotiations between the Company and
the electric utilities to ensure that
the kiosks can be properly electrified. The Company shall seek competitive proposals from Cleveland
Public Power (“CPP”) for electric
service to the kiosks. The Company
shall give due consideration to using
the services of CPP for electricity
whenever a CPP connection is available and its rates are equal to or
lower than any other utility company providing the same services.
6. MAPS AND SIGNS
6.1 The Company shall finance up
to fifty seven thousand dollars
($57,000) of the costs associated
with the printing of the maps and
up to seventy-five thousand dollars
($75,000) of the costs associated
with the design and printing of the
tourist
orientation
signs.
If
it
appears either dollar amount will be
exceeded for the design and printing of the required tourist orientation and public information signs,
the Company shall notify the City.
The City shall not be required to
expend any funds to make the
required tourist orientation and public information signs. The Company
shall be entitled to deduct said
amounts from the royalty payments
to be made to the City.
6.2 The Company shall obtain the
approval of the City of the proofs of
each map and tourist orientation sign.
7. INSTALLATION TIMETABLE
7.1 The Company shall complete
the installation of all or substantially all of the kiosks in the Network within six (6) months from
the execution of the Agreement.
8. MAINTENANCE
8.1 The Company shall assume,
during the term of the Agreement,
the costs associated with the maintenance of the kiosks and in particular shall:

8.1.1 Verify periodically the state
of construction and replace the damaged materials;
8.1.2 Clean the kiosks every fourteen (14) days.
8.1.3 Subject to the following, make
any and all necessary repairs and
maintenance to the kiosks caused by
vandalism or otherwise. The Company shall budget an annual cumulative amount of four hundred dollars
($400) for each kiosk for such repairs
and maintenance. Should the amount
incurred for maintenance and repairs
for the Network exceed the total budgeted amount referred to
above
($56,000 @ $400 per kiosk) for any
two consecutive years during the
term of the Agreement, as demonstrated by reasonable documentation
provided to the City, the City agrees
that, at the beginning of the subsequent year, it will allow the Company to relocate any kiosk or group of
kiosks
in
the
Network
which
incurred during said period maintenance costs substantially in excess of
the average maintenance costs for
other locations in the Network. Such
relocation shall be solely funded by
the Company. The City agrees to use
its best efforts to find mutually
acceptable sites for such relocations
having at least the same commercial
value to the Company. Relocation to
the new sites shall be conditioned on
the appropriate permits.
8.1.4 Paint the damaged parts of
the kiosks at least twice a year.
8.1.5
Remove
snow
around
a
perimeter of at least twelve (12)
inches around any kiosk within
twenty four (24) hours of any snowfall of at least four (4) inches.
8.1.6 Maintain a twenty four (24)
hour emergency service for the purpose of insuring the security of the
public, and display on each kiosk a
telephone number, which number is
in service twenty-four (24) hours, to
which maintenance requests may be
made.”.
8.1.7 Make the following repairs
within two (2) business days of a
written notice from the City, which
written notice need not be by regular mail:
8.1.7.1 replace all broken glass;
8.1.7.2 repair all lighting defects;
8.1.7.3 repair all structural defects.
8.2 In the event that the Company
does not undertake such repairs
within the delays, the City shall
have the right to undertake such
repairs at the Company’s expense.
9. ACCESS TO INFRASTRUCTURE,
MOVING OF KIOSKS
9.1 The City shall have the right,
at all times to require a temporary
displacement of a kiosk by giving a
one (1) day written notice to the
Company, which written notice need
not be by regular mail, for normal
repairs and maintenance of its infrastructure. In the case of an emergency,
the
City
shall
only
be
required to provide a four (4) hour
notice to the Company, which notice
may be oral or written and need not
be by regular mail. The Company
shall assume the costs of such temporary displacement and will deduct
such
costs
from
the
royalties
payable to the City under the Agreement.
9.2 The City shall have the right
to request the permanent displacement of kiosks for the construction
of streets, parks and public places
and as may be legally necessary to
preserve and maintain the public
rights of way in trust for public purposes. The Company shall move the
kiosks within thirty (30) days of a

written notice by the City. The Company shall assume the costs of such
displacement and will deduct such
costs from the annual royalties
payable to the City under the Agreement.
9.3 In the case where a kiosk is
relocated, the City shall use its best
efforts to approve a new site that is
of an equivalent or superior advertising value to the Company than
the previous site.
9.4 In the case of any displacement requested by the City, the City
shall use its best efforts to propose
and find another site for such kiosk
within two (2) months of the written notice by the City under section
9.2 hereof.
9.5 In the case of any displacement required by the Company, the
Company shall assume all costs
related to the displacement of the
kiosks and repairs to the sites.
9.6 The Company shall assume the
loss of income resulting from the
displacement of a kiosk during the
first ten (10) days following the
date of such displacement. If the
displacement is requested by the
City, the City shall assume, as of
the eleventh (11th) day and up to
the reinstallation of the kiosk, the
loss of income to be established at
seventy (70%) of the advertising
value of the removed kiosk. This
loss of income shall be deducted
from the royalties.
9.7 The Company shall assume all
costs related to the displacement of
kiosks for the Euclid Avenue Corridor Improvement Program and no
deduction shall be made from the
City’s royalties for any costs or loss
of advertising revenue.
10. SECURITY
10.1 The Company or an affiliate
shall provide to the City and maintain in force an irrevocable letter of
guarantee for an amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000) upon execution of the Agreement and for the
duration of the construction period
of the kiosks.
10.2 The Company or an affiliate
shall provide to the City and maintain in force an irrevocable letter of
guarantee for an amount of one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000)
to secure the maintenance obligations of the Company. This amount
will be increased each year in
accordance with the cost of living
index applicable to the Cleveland
area.
10.3 The Company shall undertake
to assume the defense of the City in
respect of each claim or proceeding
against it and indemnify, and hold
the City harmless, from any liability relating to any accident or damage
resulting
from
the
kiosks,
except if the accident or damage is
caused by the sole negligence of the
City.
10.4 The City will assume no
responsibility as a result of any
accident caused by a default in the
construction or maintenance of a
kiosk.
10.5 The Company shall maintain
in force, for the duration of the
Agreement, civil and property liability insurance in the amount set
out in section 10.6. The City shall be
named as an additional insured
under such policies.
10.6 Such insurance policy shall
provide
a
four
million
dollar
($4,000,000) coverage per event or
per accident.
10.7 The Company shall assume
all the costs relating to the insurance.

11. USE OF KIOSKS
11.1 Each kiosk shall have a face
designated for tourist orientation
and public information. The City
may make use of this face without
charge for such purposes.
11.2 No elected official’s name, picture or likeness shall appear on the
kiosk structure or the face designated for tourist orientation or public information or on any other face,
except as part of a paid advertisement, provided that it is in accordance with applicable laws.
12. TAXES AND ROYALTIES
12.1 The Company shall assume
and pay all taxes (including property taxes) and royalties relating to
the manufacturing, installation and
maintenance of the kiosks and the
sale of advertising or all obligations
resulting directly or indirectly from
the Agreement.
12.2 Each year, within three (3)
months following the end of its financial year, the Company shall pay to
the City the following royalties:
12.2.1 a ten percent (10%) royalty
on all gross revenues generated
from the Network throughout the
term of the Agreement;
12.2.2 beginning year four (4), a
further royalty equal to thirty five
percent (35%) of all gross revenues
in excess of one million dollars
($1,000,000)
gross
revenue
per
annum provided that the one million
dollars ($1,000,000) will be increased
each year to reflect the cost of living index applicable to the Cleveland area applied to seven hundred
thousand dollars ($700,000) of fixed
costs.
12.3 The above royalties in section
12.2 are conditional upon having 195
kiosks, or a lesser mutually agreed
upon number, of which it is contemplated there will be ___ kiosks
of three (3) faces and ___ kiosks of
two (2) faces, generating ______
advertising faces at a cost of
$______. Of said cost of $ ________,
$______ would be recuperated by the
Company from royalties payable to
the City under the Agreement.
12.4 The Company shall provide
access to the City to ten percent
(10%) of its kiosk advertising faces
for the City’s own use and not for
resale. The Company and the City
shall mutually agree as to the location and use of such faces.
12.5 The Company shall maintain
separate financial books and records
for the Network.
12.6 The City’s auditors shall have
access to the books and records
maintained
by
the
Company
required to determine the revenues
generated by the Network. Such
inspection shall occur during normal
business hours and after having provided the Company with a reasonable prior written notice.
12.7 The Company’s recourse for
collection of any costs financed by
it for the City shall be solely
against the royalties. The City shall
never be responsible to pay any
money to the Company for costs
financed by it for the City.
13.
TERMINATION
OF
THE
AGREEMENT
13.1 The City shall be entitled to terminate the Agreement if the Company is in default and has not remedied
such default within thirty (30) days
of a written notice from the City.
13.2 Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company
shall be in default if it:
13.2.1 does not respect the installation timetable for the kiosks,

except if the delays result from the
fault or negligence of the City or of
a public utility Company;
13.2.2
refuses
or
neglects
to
remove materials forming part of a
kiosk not approved by the City or
not in accordance with the Agreement;
13.2.3 becomes bankrupt or insolvent, which is determined to have
happened upon the filing, execution
or occurrence of (a) a petition or
other proceeding by, or a finding
against, it for its dissolution, reorganization or liquidation, (b) a petition in bankruptcy by it, (c) an
adjudication of it as bankrupt or
insolvent, or (d) an assignment or
petition for assignment for the benefit of creditors;
13.2.4 does not meet its obligations
provided for in the Agreement;
13.2.5 does not complete the installation of the Network;
13.2.6 transfers the rights to the
Agreement without the consent of
the City.
13.3 Upon the happening of any
one or more of the events as set
forth in section 13.2 or at any time
thereafter during the continuance
thereof, the City may, at its option,
exercise concurrently or successively any one or more the following
rights and remedies, in addition to
its right to terminate as stated in
section 13.1.
13.3.1
Without
waiving
any
default, pay any sum required to be
paid by Company to others than the
City and which Company has failed
to pay, and perform any obligation
required to be performed by Company hereunder, and any amounts so
paid or expended by the City in fulfilling the obligations of Company
hereunder, including all interest,
costs, damages, attorneys’ fees and
penalties, shall be repaid by Company to the City on demand with
interest thereon at the rate of
twelve percent (12%) per annum
from the date of such payment or
expenditure;
13.3.2 Enjoin any breach or threatened breach by Company of any
covenants, agreements, terms, provisions or conditions hereof;
13.3.3 Sue for the collection of any
amounts for which Company may be
in default or for the performance of
any other obligation, promise or
agreement devolving upon Company
for performance or damage therefor,
all without terminating this Agreement;
13.3.4 Exercise any and all additional rights and remedies which
the City may have at law or in equity.
13.4 All rights and remedies granted to the City herein and any other
rights and remedies which the City
may have at law and in equity are
hereby declared to be cumulative
and not exclusive and the fact that
the City may have exercised any
remedy without terminating this
Agreement shall not impair the
City’s rights thereafter to terminate
or to exercise any other remedy
herein granted or to which it may
be otherwise entitled.
13.5 At the termination of the
Agreement, the City becomes owner
of all the kiosks, the accessories,
the maps and signs without any
charge or indemnity payable to the
Company.
14. DURATION OF THE AGREEMENT
14.1 The Agreement shall be for a
term of twenty (20) years following
its execution.

14.2 Unless directed otherwise by
the City, the Company agrees to
assign to the City all kiosks, the
accessories and the plans and signs
at the earliest of one or the other of
the following events:
14.2.1 at the twentieth (20th)
anniversary of the Agreement;
14.2.2 prior thereto, should the
Company not remedy a default provided for in section 13 hereof.
14.3 At the termination of the
Agreement, the Company shall have
no further obligation towards the
City, with the exception of any
obligations arising out of the City’s
remedies for default or any obligations that are unfulfilled.
14.4 Upon an assignment pursuant
to Section 14.2, the City shall take
possession of the kiosks without
any payment or monetary obligations toward the Company.
14.5 The City may choose to have
the company remove any of the
kiosks and restore the sidewalks,
all at the Company’s sole cost without deduction from royalties, at the
happening of one of the events
stated in Section 14.2. If the Company is required to remove a kiosk
and restore the sidewalk, this must
be completed within ninety (90)
days after one of the events stated
in Section 14.2.
15. POSTING
15.1 The Company shall be responsible for the entering into advertising contracts.
15.2 The Company acknowledges
and agrees that it shall not post or
allow to be posted any advertising
of tobacco products on the Network.
The Company agrees to comply
with any municipal, state or federal legislation which imposes certain restrictions on the advertising
of products, including the advertising of alcoholic beverage products.
Recognizing that there are select
areas of the City in which advertising of alcoholic beverage products is allowed, the Company further agrees that no kiosk will contain more than one advertisement
face for alcohol beverage products
and that alcohol beverage product
advertising will not dominate any
group of kiosks in any given area.
The Company and the City agree to
work out an acceptable formula or
ratio in connection with such advertising.
15.3 The Company undertakes to
take up the defense for the City in
respect of any claims or proceedings
against the City resulting from
advertising contracts entered into
by the Company.
16. ASSIGNMENT
16.1 The Company may not assign,
transfer, convey, sell or pledge its
rights or interests in this Agreement
or any part thereof, or any right or
privilege created hereunder, except
that Company shall be allowed to
assign its rights to execute this
Agreement to an affiliate or subsidiary of the Company.
17. CURRENCY
17.1 All dollar amounts referred to
herein are in United States dollars.
18. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY AND CITY RESIDENTS
18.1 Company acknowledges that
it is the policy of the City that business concerns owned and operated
by minority persons and females
shall have every practicable opportunity to participate in the performance of contracts awarded or

assisted by the City. Company shall
use its best efforts to award fifteen
percent (15%) of the construction
contracts
and
supplier
purchase
orders for the Network to minority
owned business enterprises and five
percent (5%) of the construction
contracts
and
supplier
purchase
orders for the Network to female
owned
business
enterprises
(“MBE/FBE”), as those phrases are
defined in Section 187.01 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, that have been certified
by the City’s Office of Equal Opportunity
(“MBE/FBE
Participation
Requirements”). Exemptions
may
be granted by the City on contracts
for purchase and installation of specialized
equipment
or materials
installed by the manufacturer. Company shall make a good faith effort
to obtain any exemption from the
City prior to the execution of the
contract for the purchase and installation of such specialized equipment
or materials, but in no event shall
an exemption be obtained later than
the commencement of construction
of
the
Network
component
for
which
the
exemption
is
being
sought.
The MBE/FBE Participation Requirement shall be equal to the total
dollar amount of construction contracts, and supplier purchase orders
less approved exemptions multiplied
by fifteen percent (15%) and five
percent (5%), respectively. To verify the award of MBE/FBE contracts, Company shall submit to the
City copies of all contracts, subcontracts, purchase orders, lien waivers
or other evidence of payment acceptable to the City.
Materials and supplies obtained
from MBE/FBE suppliers and manufacturers may be counted towards
fulfilling the MBE/FBE Participation Requirements if the MBE/FBE
assumes the actual and contractual
responsibility for the provision of
the materials and supplies. The total
dollar value will be counted in the
case of MBE/FBE manufacturers
and suppliers, provided that the
MBE/FBE supplier performs a commercially useful function in the supply process. An MBE/FBE firm who
performs
a
commercially
useful
function is one who supervises, manages or actually performs a distinct
element of the work.
18.2 This Agreement is a “contract”, and Company is a “contractor” within the meaning of Chapter
187 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland. During the term of this
Agreement, Company shall comply
with
all
terms,
conditions
and
requirements imposed on a “contractor” in the Equal Opportunity
Clause, Section 187.11(b), attached
as Exhibit B and made a part hereof. A copy of the Equal Opportunity Clause shall be made a part of
every
subcontract
or
agreement
entered into for goods or services,
and shall be binding on all persons,
firms and corporations with whom
Company may deal.
18.3 Company shall, to the greatest extent feasible, hire and employ
residents of the City of Cleveland to
carry out its obligations under this
Agreement and award contracts for
work to carry out its obligations
under this Agreement to businesses
located in the City of Cleveland or
owned in substantial part by persons residing in the City of Cleveland. Company shall strive to hire
and employ minorities and females.
City may refer potential employees
to Company.

19. WORKERS’ COMPENSATION:
SOCIAL SECURITY ACT
19.1 Company shall at all times
during the term of this Agreement
subscribe to and comply with the
Workers’ Compensation Laws of the
State of Ohio and pay such premiums as may be required thereunder
and save the City harmless from
any and all liability arising from or
under said act.
19.2
Company
shall
be,
and
remain, an independent contractor
with respect to all installations and
services performed hereunder and
shall accept full and exclusive liability for the payment of any and
all contributions or taxes for social
security, unemployment insurance,
or old age retirement benefits, pensions, or annuities now or hereafter
imposed under any State or Federal
law which are measured by the
wages, salaries or other remuneration paid to persons employed by
Company or work performed under
the terms of this Agreement. Company shall obey all rules and regulations which are now or hereafter
issued or promulgated under said
respective laws by any duly authorized State or Federal officials. Company shall indemnify and save
harmless the City from any such
contribution of taxes or liabilities
therefor.
20. NOTICES
20.1 All notices shall be sent by
regular mail, postage prepaid, to the
following addresses.
20.2 Notices to the City shall be
delivered or addressed to it at:
or to such other person or place as
the City may designate in writing.
20.3 Notices to the Company shall
be delivered or addressed to it at:
or to such other person or place as
the Company may designate in writing.
21. CONSTRUCTION OF AGREEMENT
21.1 All terms and words used in
this Agreement, regardless of the
number and gender in which they
are used, shall be deemed and construed to include any other number,
singular or plural, and any other
gender,
masculine,
feminine
or
neuter, as the context or sense of
this Agreement or any paragraph or
clause herein may require, the same
as if such words have been fully
and properly written in the number
and gender. Company agrees that
no representation or warranties of
any type shall be binding upon the
City, unless expressly authorized in
writing herein. The headings of sections and paragraphs, if any, to the
extent used herein are used for reference only, and in no way define,
limit or describe the scope or intent
of any provision hereof. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which,
when so executed and delivered,
shall be deemed an original, but
such counterparts together shall
constitute but one and the same
instrument.
Exhibits
A
and
B
attached hereto are hereby incorporated in and made a part of this
Agreement.
21.2 This Agreement supersedes
all prior Agreements between the
parties respecting the subject matter of this Agreement, both written
and unwritten, and constitutes the
entire Agreement between the parties as of the date hereof. Any provisions of prior Agreements which
conflict in any manner with the

provisions of this Agreement are
hereby specifically declared void
and of no effect.
21.3 This Agreement shall not be
changed, modified, discharged or
extended except when authorized by
an ordinance of the City and by
written instrument executed by both
parties pursuant to the laws of the
State of Ohio and the ordinances
and charter of the City.
21.4 If any term or provision of
this Agreement is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable by any court
of competent jurisdiction, the invalidity, illegality or unenforceability
shall not affect any other term of
provision hereof. This Agreement
shall be interpreted and construed
as if such term or provision, to the
extent it has been held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, had never
been contained herein.
23.5 Nothing contained in this
Agreement shall be deemed to constitute the City and Company as
partners in a partnership or joint
venture for any purpose whatsoever.
23.6 This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with the laws
of the State of Ohio.
24. REPORTS
24.1 Company must report annually on February 1 to the Clerk of the
Council of the City (1) the royalties
paid to the City in the prior year;
(2) a listing of the location of each
kiosk; (3) the number of Company
employees and the City of residence,
race and gender of each employee;
and (4) a list of neighborhood or
civil notices posted on the kiosks. A
copy of this report shall be delivered to the City at the appropriate
address.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this instrument to
be executed as of the day and year
first above written.
CITY OF CLEVELAND
By Michael R. White
Mayor
Date: _______________
OMNI OUTDOOR & COMPANY
LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
By: _________________
Date: _______________
WITNESSES
The legal form and correctness of
this instrument is approved.
CORNELL P. CARTER
Director of Law
By: ________________
Assistant Director of Law
Date: ______________
Section 3. That the Mayor and the
Director of Law and other appropriate
City officials are hereby authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents and take such other actions as
may be necessary for the purpose of
implementing the terms and conditions of this Agreement authorized in
Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
4.
That
all
royalties
received by the City pursuant to the
Agreement authorized by Section 1
of this ordinance shall be used for
the City’s Storefront Renovation
Program, except that annually no
greater than Ten Thousand Dollars
(10,000) may be paid to the Downtown Development Partnership and
no greater than Ten Thousand Dollars (10,000) may be paid to the
Cleveland
Neighborhood
Develop-

ment Corp. from the royalties for
their services to administer the
tourist
and
public
information
aspects of the kiosk program. The
maximum amount that may be paid
to the Downtown Development Partnership and the Cleveland Neighborhood Development Corp. shall be
adjusted each year by the annual
percentage change in the Cleveland,
Ohio Consumer Price Index for the
twelve (12) month period ending the
previous June 30, rounded to the
nearest dollar. The revised maximum shall take effect on January 1
of each year.
Section 5. That no elected official’s name, picture or likeness shall
appear on the maps or tourist information signs or any other signs,
except as part of a paid advertisement, provided that it is in accordance with applicable laws.
Section 6. That prior to the City
agreeing to certain provisions in the
Agreement authorized by Section 1
of this ordinance, the City Planning
Committee of Council shall be consulted. Specifically, City Planning
Committee approval is necessary for
substantive,
non-design-related
issues such as Sections 2.4, 9.3, 9.4
and 14.5 of the Agreement described
in Section 2 of this ordinance.
Section 7. That notwithstanding
any other ordinance or Codified
Ordinance to the contrary, the Director of Public Service is hereby
authorized to issue a permit or permits to Omni Outdoor & Company
Limited Partnership or its affiliate
or subsidiary that may be a party
to the Agreement authorized in Section 1 of this ordinance to erect, construct, replace and maintain various
informational kiosks on the sidewalks and other public ways of the
City of Cleveland at various locations throughout the City of Cleveland subject to all requirements,
including the location, access and
security requirements stated in the
Agreement described in Section 2 of
this ordinance.
Section 8. That the permit authorized in Section 7 of this ordinance
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

BOARD OF CONTROL
March 31, 1999
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, March 31, 1999,
at 11:00 a.m., with Acting Mayor
Carter presiding.
Present: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek,
Acting
Director
Owens, Director Whitlow, Acting
Director Sheperd, Directors Jackson,
Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and
Acting Director Alexander.
Absent: Mayor White, Director
Balraj.
Others: William A. Moon, Commissioner,
Purchases
and
Supplies.
Laura A. Williams, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolutions were adopted.

Resolution No. 148-99.
By Director Carmody.
Be it resolved, pursuant to Ordinance No. 1744-97, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland
October 20, 1997, New World Systems
is hereby selected upon the nomination of the Director of Finance from
a list of firms determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Finance, as the firm of
computer system consultants to be
employed by contract for the purpose of supplementing the regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City in order to provide project management, systems
integration,
application
software
support, end-user training and technical support personnel training,
data conversion, acquisition of computer hardware, computer software
and systems design, for the design,
development, implementation, including installation, licensing and support of a Computer Aided Dispatch
(CAD) system, for the Department
of Public Safety; now, therefore,
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Finance hereby is authorized to enter into a written contract
with New World Systems for the
Computer Aided Dispatch System for
the Department of Public Safety,
based upon its proposal dated January 18, 1999, which contract shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall include such additional provisions as he deems necessary to benefit and protect public interest.
Be it further resolved that the costs
of the aforementioned contract authorized hereby for the Computer Aided
Dispatch System shall not exceed
Two Million Two Hundred ThirtyNine Thousand and Seven Hundred
Twenty-One Dollars ($2,239,721).
Yeas: None.
Nays: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 149-99.
By Director Carmody.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all
bids received on March 26, 1999 for
Pre-Sort Mail Service (all items) for
the Division of Various Divisions of
City Government, Department of
Finance, pursuant to the authority
of Ordinance No. 272-99, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
on March 22, 1999 be and the same
are hereby rejected.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 150-99.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 2012-97, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
February 2, 1998, Orion Consulting,
Incorporated is hereby selected from
the list of firms determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Utilities, as the
firm to be employed by contract for
the production and distribution of
the 1998 Water Quality Report, for

the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the Director of Public Utilities hereby is
requested to enter into a contract with
Orion Consulting, Incorporated based
upon its proposal dated January 29,
1999 and addendum thereto dated
March 26, 1999, which contract shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
shall provide for furnishing of professional services as contained in said
proposal, for an aggregate fee not in
excess of $225,000.00, and shall contain
such additional provisions as the
Director of Law deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Orion Consulting, Incorporated for
the above mentioned professional
service is hereby approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK

Phifer LWD Printing
printing services
Kapp & Associates,
Incorporated
graphic design services
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 151-99.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Inframetrics, Inc. for an
estimated quantity of test equipment, item nos. 3 and 4, for the Divisions of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on the 18th day of
February 1999, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 213-93,
passed March 15, 1993 on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to One Hundred Forty Five
Thousand
Eight
Hundred
and
no/100 Dollars ($145,800.00), (Net 30
Days),
is
hereby
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is hereby requested to enter into
requirement contract for such commodities, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 21722
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Fifty
Six Thousand and no/100 Dollars
($56,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

Resolution No. 152-99.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on January 28,
1999, for Streetlighting Materials
item nos. 28, 52 and 53, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, pursuant to the authority of Section
129.26 of the Codified Ordinances of
the City of Cleveland 1976, be and
the same are hereby rejected.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 153-99.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Reed City Power Line
Supply Co. for an estimated quantity of streetlighting materials, item
nos. 27, 50, 51 alt., 54 thru 60, 63 thru
66 and 81, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of two
(2) years beginning with the date
of execution of a contract, received
on January 28, 1999, pursuant to the
authority of Section 129.26 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
Three Hundred Thirty One Thousand Two Hundred Eighty Six and
10/100 Dollars ($331,286.10), (Net 30
Days),
is
hereby
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is hereby requested to enter into
requirement contract for such commodities, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 21719
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Thirty
Six Thousand Seven Hundred Twenty and no/100 Dollars ($36,720.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 154-99.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Leader Electric Supply
Co. for an estimated quantity of
streetlighting materials, item nos. 67
thru 77, 82 and 83, for the Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period
of two (2) years beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,
received on January 28, 1999, pursuant to the authority of Section
129.26 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, which on the

basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to One Hundred Seventy Two Thousand Eight Hundred
and no/100 Dollars ($172,800.00),
(Net 30 Days), is hereby affirmed
and approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is hereby requested to enter
into requirement contract for such
commodities, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 21717
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of One
Hundred Twenty Six Thousand One
Hundred Ninety and no/100 Dollars
($126,190.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 155-99.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on February 18,
1999, for Labor and Material to
Inspect, Test and Repair Bucket and
Derrick Trucks, item nos. 1 and 3,
for the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1069-98, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
July 29, 1998, be and the same are
hereby rejected.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 156-99.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that the bid of American National
Fleet Service, Inc. for an estimated
quantity of labor and material to
inspect, test and repair bucket and
derrick trucks, item nos. 2 and 4
thru 7, for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two (2)
years beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
the 18th day of February 1999, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1069-98, passed July 29, 1998 on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Two Hundred
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($200,000.00), (5% 30 Days), is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is hereby
requested to enter into requirement
contract
for
such
commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate
purchase
as
the
initial
amount of such contract of the following:

Requisition No. 21205
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Five Thousand and no/100 Dollars
($25,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
American National Fleet Service,
Inc., for labor and material to
inspect, test and repair bucket and
derrick trucks for the above-mentioned requirement contract is hereby approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

MBE/FBE

Jordan Distributors

13% (MBE)

Ultra Printing & Design
Lake Industrial Supply

Resolution No. 158-99.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Pepco for an estimated
quantity of streetlighting materials,
item nos. 1 thru 4, 61, 62 and 79 alt.,
for the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two (2) years
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on January 28, 1999, pursuant to the
authority of Section 129.26 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
Sixty Nine Thousand Nine Hundred
Twenty
and
05/100
Dollars
($69,920.05), (Net 30 Days), is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is hereby
requested to enter into requirement
contract
for
such
commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:

5% (FBE)
2% (MBE)

Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 157-99.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Wesco Distribution, Inc.
for an estimated quantity of streetlighting materials, item nos. 5 thru
22, 25 and 29 thru 49, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two (2) years beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on January 28, 1999,
pursuant to the authority of Section
129.26 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Five Hundred
Eighty Nine Thousand Eight Hundred Nineteen and 62/100 Dollars
($589,819.62), (Net 30 Days), is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is hereby
requested to enter into requirement
contract
for
such
commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 21720
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Nine Thousand Nine Hundred Sixty
Two and 84/100 Dollars ($29,962.84).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

Requisition No. 21718
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Three
Thousand Seven Hundred Twenty
One and no/100 Dollars ($3,721.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 159-99.
By Director Ricchiutto.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Valley Ford Sterling Truck Sales,
Inc. for an estimated quantity of
various crew cab and chassis with
dump body and additional equipment (all items) for various divisions of City Government, Department of Public Service, for the
period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on February 19, 1999,
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1074-98, passed June 15,
1998, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
approximately Three Hundred Thirty One Thousand Nine Hundred
Twelve
and
no/100
Dollars
($331,912.00), (Net 30 Days) is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Public Service is hereby
requested to enter into requirement
contract
for
such
commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 31368
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Three
Hundred Thirty One Thousand Nine
Hundred Twelve and no/100 Dollars
($331,912.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said esti-

mated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractor by Valley Ford Sterling Truck Sales, Inc.,
for the purchase of various crew cab
and chassis with dump body and
additional equipment, (all items), is
hereby approved:
Logical Services — MBE
$700.00/unit — 2%
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 160-99.
By Director Jackson.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1955-98, passed
December 14, 1998, by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized by and at the direction
of the Board of Control to sell certain City-owned, property, no longer
needed for public use, described
therein and located at the northwest
corner of East 131st Street and Iroquois Avenue, Permanent Parcel
Number 110-15-022, to Umstead Management & Construction Company;
and
Whereas, said Ordinance No. 195598 provided that the consideration to
be paid for the property shall be at
a price not less than the fair market value as determined by the
Board of Control; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Ordinance No. 1955-98,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on December 14, 1998, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby directed to sell certain City-owned property, no longer
needed for public use, described
therein and located at the northwest
corner of East 131st Street and Iroquois Avenue, Permanent Parcel
Number 110-15-022, to Umstead Management & Construction Company.
The consideration to be paid for
said property is hereby fixed at One
Hundred Dollars ($100.00), which
amount is determined to be not less
than the fair market value.
Be it further resolved that the
Mayor of the City of Cleveland is
hereby requested to execute and
deliver the official deed of the City
of Cleveland conveying said property.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 161-99.
By Director Jackson.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Able Contracting
Group, Inc. for the public improvement of Maplewood Ball Diamond
Complex Fence Improvements Project,
for Base Bid Items 1 - 2 and 4 - 7, for
the Division of Research, Planning

&
Development,
Department
of
Parks, Recreation & Properties, received on March 24, 1999, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
1605-98, passed October 19, 1998,
upon a unit basis for the improvement in the aggregate amount of
Eighteen Thousand, Five Hundred
Eighty Seven and 25/100 Dollars
($18,587.25), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid; and the Director of Department
of Parks, Recreation & Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into contract for said improvement with said
bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the following subcontractor
to
Able
Contracting
Group, Inc. on the public improvement for Maplewood Ball Diamond
Complex Fence Improvements Project is hereby approved.
SUBCONTRACTOR
RESPONSIBILITY
Crawford Fence & Guardrail
(MBE)
Fence Work
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 162-99.
By Director Jackson.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of R. J. Platten Contracting Co. for the public improvement of Lonnie Burten Recreation
Center Site Improvements Project,
for Base Bid Items 1, 3-5, 7-11, 14-21,
24-30, 32, 34-37, 40, 42-43, 50-55, 63-64,
66-71 and 74-77 and Alternate Items
1-7, for the Division of Research,
Planning & Development, Department of Parks, Recreation & Properties, received on January 13, 1999,
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 929-97, passed June 9, 1997,
upon a unit basis for the improvement in the aggregate amount of
Three Hundred Ninety Nine Thousand, Eight Hundred Sixty Two and
90/100 Dollars ($399,862.90), is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest responsible bid; and the
Director of Department of Parks,
Recreation & Properties is hereby
authorized to enter into contract for
said improvement with said bidder.
Be it further resolved by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
that the following subcontractors for
R. J. Platten Contracting Co. on the
public
improvement
for
Lonnie
Burten Recreation Center Site Improvements are hereby approved.
SUBCONTRACTORS
RESPONSIBILITY
Cook Paving
(MBE)
United Ready Mix
(MBE)
Lito Trucking
(MBE)
Barrow Sign
(FBE)

Asphalt Work
Concrete Work
Trucking
Signage

Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,

Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 163-99.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 142-25-047, 142-25048, 142-27-021, 142-27-022, 142-27-104
and 142-27-105 under said Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 462-99
passed March 22, 1999, authorized
the sale of said parcels for a consideration established by the Board
of Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Amistad Development
Corporation or designee has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcels; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 462-99 passed March
22, 1999, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Amistad Development Corporation or designee for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
Nos. 142-25-047, 142-25-048, 142-27-021,
142-27-022, 142-27-104 and 142-27-105,
as described in said Ordinance in
accordance with the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of said
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$600 each, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcels for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 164-99.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 001-28-034 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 104-99
passed March 22, 1999, authorized
the sale of said parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Revco Discount Drug
Center has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop said parcel;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 104-99 passed March
22, 1999, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland

with Revco Discount Drug Center
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 001-28-034, as
described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$1,000, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcels for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 165-99.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 123-20-077, 123-21121, 123-21-123, 125-27-048, and 125-27049 under said Land Reutilization
Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 426-99
passed March 15, 1999, authorized
the sale of said parcels for a consideration established by the Board
of Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Cleveland Housing Network, Incorporated has proposed to
the City to purchase and develop
said parcels; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 426-99 passed March
15, 1999, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Cleveland Housing Network,
Incorporated for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos.
123-20-077, 123-21-121, 123-21-123, 12527-048, and 125-27-049, as described in
said Ordinance in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$100 (each) which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcels for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 166-99.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 102-34-045 located at 1800 East
30th Street in Ward 13; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,

Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Frank Menge and Marcella
Menge,
abutting/adjacent
landowners, have proposed to the
City to purchase and develop said
parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 13 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of said
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City
of
Cleveland,
with
Frank
Menge and Marcella Menge for the
sale and development of Permanent
Parcel No. 102-34-045 located at 1800
East 30th Street, in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the
consideration for said parcel shall
be $1,050, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
Fair Market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 167-99.
By Director Carmody.
Be it resolved, pursuant to Ordinance No. 1744-97, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland
October 20, 1997, New World Systems
is hereby selected upon the nomination of the Director of Finance from
a list of firms determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Finance, as the firm of
computer system consultants to be
employed by contract for the purpose of supplementing the regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City in order to provide project management, systems
integration,
application
software
support, end-user training and technical support personnel training,
data conversion, acquisition of computer hardware, computer software
and systems design, for the design,
development,
implementation,
including installation, licensing and
support of a Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD) system, for the Department of Public Safety; now, therefore,
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Finance hereby is authorized to enter into a written contract
with New World Systems for the
Computer Aided Dispatch System for
the Department of Public Safety,

based upon its proposal dated January 18, 1999, which contract shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall include such additional provisions as he deems necessary to benefit and protect public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
costs of the aforementioned contract
authorized hereby for the Computer
Aided Dispatch System shall not
exceed One Million One Hundred
Seventy Four Thousand Four Hundred
and
Twenty
Nine
Dollars
($1,174,429.00).
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 168-99.
By Director Balraj.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 710-95, passed by the
Council of the City on June 12, 1995,
the Director of Port Control is hereby authorized to enter into a written agreement with Wendling Communications for production, completion and distribution of Horizons
Newsletter for spring and summer,
1998 for the divisions of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport and
Burke Lakefront Airport, Department of Port Control. Said agreement shall be in an amount not to
exceed $62,566.10 and shall be prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain such other terms and
provisions as the Director of Law
deems necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 169-99.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all
bids received on March 12, 1999 for
rebuilt Allison Transmissions for
the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 2099-98, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
February 1, 1999 be and the same
are hereby rejected.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Director Owens,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Sheperd, Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Acting
Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________

General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the

Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance
positions who are successful in
other parts of the examinations
must submit to a physical examination.
FREDDIE J. FENDERSON,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, APRIL 19, 1999
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 99-33: 16501 Euclid Avenue (Ward 10)
Harold J. Stern, owner, and Gary
Fishman, attorney, appeal to install
approximately 200 linear ft. of 10'
high chain link fencing to the north
and west of an 80' x 240' corner
parcel occupied by a one-story building to the west of the property, all
located in split zoning between a
Two-Family and Local Retail District at the corner of Alcoy Road
and Euclid Avenue at 16501 Euclid
Avenue; said installation being contrary to the Yards and Courts Regulations
of
Section
357.13(b)(3)
where the maximum height of fencing along side street of the corner
lot and 10% of the rear lot is 4'-6"
and 10' is proposed along the rear
yard of the corner lot and the
maximum height permitted is 6' as
stated in Section 337.23(a)(6) of the
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 99-54: 8204-8208 Medina
Avenue, a.k.a. 1101 East 82nd
Street (Ward 7)
Bonnie Jones, owner, appeals to
install approximately 90 linear ft. of
5'-6" high wooden fencing to the
north and west of a 60' x 72' corner
parcel occupied by a one-story building to the west of the property, all
located in a Two-Family District at
the corner of East 82nd Street and
Medina Avenue, a.k.a. 1101 East
82nd Street; said installation being
contrary to the Yards and Courts
Regulations where the proposed
height of fencing is 5'-6" and the
maximum height of fencing 30' deep
and front corner lot angle is 2'-6"
as stated in Section 357.13(b)(3) of
the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 99-56: 1946 St. C1air
Avenue (Ward 13)
Seaway Acceptance Corporation,
owner, and Code Blue Inc., tenant,
appeal to install approximately 163
linear ft. of 6' high solid wooden
fencing where 35 linear ft. are proposed to the east and the remaining
proposed on the southerly portion of
an approximate 28' x 135' parcel

located in a Semi-Industry District
on the southerly side of St. Clair
Avenue at 1946 St. Clair Avenue;
said proposal being contrary to the
Enforcement and Penalty Regulations where an incomplete permit
application was submitted without
the signatures of all relevant property owners and the owner of the
easement must consent to and authorize installation of the proposed
fencing as stated in Section 327.02
of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 99-57: 1743-1749 East
55th Street (Ward 7)
Charles S. Smith, owner, appeals
to change the use of an existing
130' x 30' two-story masonry store
building located in a Semi-Industry
and Multi-Family District and situated on a 179' x 150' parcel, with
an existing 54' x 27' one-story
masonry storage building to the
south of the proposed building in
question, into a bar and lounge for
assembly use and parking for 27
cars and located at the northeasterly corner of Lexington Avenue and
East 55th Street at 1743-1749 East
55th Street; said change of use and
proposed parking being contrary to
Residential District Regulations of
Section 337.08 where a bar and
lounge are not permitted in a MultiFamily District and contrary to the
Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations of Section 349.08 where 75
spaces are required and 27 spaces
are proposed, and the Landscaping
and Screening Regulations of Section 352.10 where a 6' medium landscaping strip for screening of parking from street is required and Sections 352.08, 352.09 and 352.11 where
an 8' heavy transition landscaping
strip is required between the SemiIndustry and Multi-Family Districts
and Section 352.12 where a landscaping plan is required and parking not permitted in the front building setback line established on Lexington Avenue as stated in Section
357.14 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 99-58: 3767 West 130th
Street (Ward 19)
Luther and Juanita Peters, owners,
and Patio Enclosures, Inc., agent
c/o Michael Shon, contractor, appeal
to enclose the existing 6' x 25' front
porch of an existing 25' x 34' twodwelling house situated on a 40' x
105' parcel and located in a TwoFamily District on the east side of
West 130th Street at 3767 West 130th
Street; said enclosure being contrary
to the Yards and Courts Regulations
where
enclosed
porches
or
vestibules do not project more than
4' and do not aggregate a vertical
area in any story more than 20% of
the area of the facade in that story
as stated in Section 357.13(B)(4) of
the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 99-61: 1901 Eglindale
Avenue (Ward 14)
County of Cuyahoga, owner, and
Multiple Sclerosis Association of
America/HUD,
tenants
c/o
Nick
Zarnas and Jennifer Wintner, attorney, appeal to erect a 153' x 49'
two-story frame 17 dwelling units
apartment building and accessory
parking area, all on a 284' x 376'
triangular shaped acreage corner
parcel located in a Two-Family District at the corner of Ketteringham
Road and Eglindale Avenue and to
be known for the apartment building as 1901 Eglindale Avenue; said
apartment building being totally
within the residence district contrary to the residence limitations of

Section 337.03 and not in conformance with the Off-Street Parking
and Loading Requirements of Section 349.04 where 17 parking spaces
are required and 8 are proposed and
contrary to the Yards and Courts
Regulations of Section 357.04 where
15% of the average depth of the lot
or 19' is required and 7.33' is provided and the Area Requirements of
Section 355.04 where a 40,800 sq. ft.
lot is required and 34,055 sq. ft. lot
area is proposed and Section 337.06
where a minimum 2400 sq. ft. of lot
area for each dwelling unit is
required and two side yards each a
minimum of 20' are required and 5'
are provided and Section 347.08
where the trash and refuse areas
shall be screened with an opaque
fencing not lower than the height of
the refuse containers and owner of
property must consent to permit
application as stated in Section
327.02 of the Codified Ordinances.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, APRIL 5, 1999
At the Meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, April 5,
1999, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 99-44: 2421 Bridge Avenue
Michael Kaplan, owner, appealed
to change use of an existing masonry welding building in a General
Retail Business District into a light
industrial building to accommodate
art glass blowing.
Calendar No. 99-45: 5208 Memphis
Avenue
Memphis
Fulton
Association,
owner,
and
Metropolitan
Health
Medical Center, tenant, appealed to
change use of an existing retail tenant space into a medical office with
4 physicians and 7 support staff
members in the Memphis Fulton
Shopping Center in a Local Retail
Business District.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 99-46: 4190 Bradley
Road postponed to May 3, 1999.
Calendar
No.
99-47:
Appeal
of
Chester P. Kuchinski postponed
to April 3, 1999.
Calendar No. 99-53: 2925 East 75th
Street, a.k.a. 7507-19 Kinsman
Road postponed to May 10, 1999.
On Monday, March
Executive Session:

29,

1999,

in

The following appeal was heard
on Monday, March 29, 1999, and said
decision to GRANT was approved
and adopted by the Board on April
5, 1999:
Calendar No: 99-60: 11225 Detroit
Avenue
Kristen Kemper, owner c/o Paul
Vernon, agent, appealed to construct a 4'-5" wide x 14' long
approximately 7' high arbor/trellis
with free standing wooden columns

to the west of a one-story office
building and an 8'-10" wide 4'-6"
long x 7" high like form to the
south of said building in a Local
Retail District.
The following appeals were heard
on Monday, March 29, 1999, and said
decisions to DENY were approved
and adopted by the Board on April
5, 1999:
Calendar No. 99-19: 10201 Elk Avenue
J. C. Green, owner, and Eller
Media Company c/o Scott Rowland,
and Anthony Calabrese, attorney,
appealed to install a 48' x 14' billboard sign on a single steel pole in
a Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 99-40: 2261-2263 East
83rd Street
Yvonne Ball, owner, appealed from
the refusal to approve a lot split for
a 33' x 173' lot in a Limited MultiFamily District.
Calendar No. 99-42: 3843 Bosworth
Avenue
Charlotte Mullican, owner, appealed
to install 40 linear feet of 6' high
stockade fencing on a 140' x 46'
parcel in a Two-Family District.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
March 31, 1999
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
*

*

*

Docket A-157-98.
RE: Appeal of V.G.U. Industries,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 4747 Manufacturing Avenue (a.k.a. 4735-51
Manufacturing Avenue) from an
ADJUDICATION ORDER of the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing dated September 16, 1998, requiring compliance
with
the
Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to accept the letter dated March 25, 1999 to the Fire
Prevention Bureau from V.G.U. Industries as a resolution of the docket,
noting that the terms and the conditions are fulfillment of the agreement between the City and the Appellant. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saunders and seconded by
Mr. Williams.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-229-98.
RE: Appeal of Rosie Bradley,
Owner of the Seven Dwelling Unit
Adult Group Home located on the
premises known as 1934 East 90th
Street
from
an
ADJUDICATION
ORDER of the Commissioner of the

Division of Building and Housing
dated November 2, 1998, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is
in order at this time to find that
the property located at 1934 East
90th Street is to be classified as R2 based upon the comments rendered by the Appellant, and that
the incorporation of smoke detectors throughout the building, heat
detectors
in
the
furnace
and
kitchen, and that limitation of the
storage areas to 100 s.f. with one
hour enclosures will be incorporated as life safety measures in the
property.
Motion
so
in
order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-234-98.
RE: Appeal of Mike Sadowsky,
Owner and Frank Maenza, Tenant,
of the Night Club located on the
premises known as 1628 Fall Street
from an ADJUDICATION ORDER of
the Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing dated November 25, 1998, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
The Board will take no action on
Docket A-234-98 at this time, noting
that the Appellant will resubmit
plans to the Building Department;
the docket will remain open.
*

*

*

Docket A-4-99.
RE: Appeal of William Gambatese, on behalf of the Sheet Metal
Workers’ Local Union No. 33, appellant, appeals the decision of the City
of Cleveland’s Division of Building
and Housing Deputy Commissioner
interpretation that the installation
of the power exhaust ductwork off
the surge tank at the Cleveland
Browns Stadium Project falls under
the Plumber Code is incorrect, appellant believes that the work in question should fall under the Ohio
Mechanical Code.
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that Mr.
Robert
Vilkas,
Deputy
Commissioner of the Division of Building
and Housing acted properly in discharging his duties, and that the
Board is not empowered to review,
approve or disapprove jurisdiction
of assignments. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Williams.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Williams
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-8-99.
RE: Appeal of Joan Mencini Ticconi, Owner of the Property located
on the premises known as 16200
Mandalay Avenue from a NOTICE
OF VIOLATION/FIRE CODE of the
Chief of the Division of Fire dated
December 8, 1998.
Docket A-8-99 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant on March 30, 1999.
*

*

*

Docket A-9-99.
RE: Appeal of Shirley A. Russell,
Owner of the Property located on

the premises known as 10631-35 St.
Clair Avenue from a LIMITATION
ON THE PERMIT of the Commissioner of the Division of Building
and Housing dated January 13, 1999,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to require the
Appellant to obtain mechanical permits within one month (1 mo.) and
that the work commence within
three months (3 mos.); and to REMAND the property at 10631-35 St.
Clair Avenue to the Division of
Building and Housing at this time
for supervision and further action.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Sullivan and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-13-99.
RE: Appeal of Eugene T. Baugh,
Owner of the One Story Masonry Bar
and Two Stores located on the
premises known as 14501-07 Woodworth Avenue from a VACATE
FORTHWITH / CONDEMNATION I6 / ELECTRICAL / HVAC / CONDEMNATION SUPPLEMENT of the Commissioner of the Division of Building and Housing dated February
11th, 17th, 22nd and 23rd, 1999,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
Docket A-13-99 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for April
14, 1999.
*

*

*

Docket A-17-99.
RE: Appeal of Shirlie Morton,
Owner, and Creative Home Improvements,
Contractor
of
the
Two
Dwelling Frame Residential Property located on the premises known as
3401 East
143rd
Street
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION/HVAC/PLUMBING of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated January 26, 1999, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the Appellant forty-five days (45 das.) in
which to abate the violations; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Division of Building and
Housing for supervision and further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr.
Saunders.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-19-99.
Re: Appeal of GMS Management
Co., Inc., Owner of the Property
located on the premises known as
2720 Van Aken Boulevard from a
NOTICE
OF
VIOLATION/FIRE
CODE of the Chief of the Division
of Fire dated February 3, 1999,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
No action, to be rescheduled for
April 14, 1999.

Docket A-20-99.
RE: Appeal of Florine B. Anthony,
Owner of the Two/one-half Story
Frame Residential Property located
on the premises known as 920
Stevenson Road from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated January 26, 1999, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant one month (1 mo.) in
which to abate the violation, the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Division of Building and
Housing for supervision and further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr.
Williams.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-25-99.
RE: Appeal of HBD Limited,
Owner of the Sarah Bousfield House
located on the premises known as
3804-06 Franklin Boulevard from an
ADJUDICATION
ORDER
of
the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing dated March
4, 1999, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
No action, the docket will remain
open until the Appellant request a
rehearing.
*

*

*

Docket A-29-99.
RE: Appeal of City of Cleveland
(Carl B. Stokes Public Utilities
Building), Owner of the Property
located on the premises known as
1201
Lakeside
Avenue
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION/HVAC of
the Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing dated October
12, 1998, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
No action, the docket will remain
open until the Appellant request a
rehearing.
Docket A-33-99.
RE: Appeal of Equivantage, Inc.,
Mortgagee
of
the
Two/one-half
Story Frame Residential Property
located on the premises known as
14528 Coit Road from a CONDEMNATION ORDER / MAIN STRUCTURE & SHED of the Commissioner
of the Division of Building and
Housing dated September 23, 1998,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
Docket A-33-99 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for April
28, 1999.
*

*

*

Docket A-43-99.
RE: Appeal of Greater Cleveland
Regional Transit Authority (RTA),
Owner of the Masonry Commercial
Property located on the premises
known as 10000 Detroit Avenue from
a NOTICE OF VIOLATION/ELEVATOR CODE of the Commissioner of
the Division of Building and Housing dated December 18, 1998 requiring compliance with the Codified

Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC).
There will be no action by the
Board on Docket A-43-99, noting that
the record stands that there is an
agreement to be reached to provide
access and abate the violations
noted.
*

*

*

Docket A-51-99.
RE:
Appeal
of
Primo
Group,
Owner of the Tremont Building
located on the premises known as
2221 Professor Street from an ADJUDICATION ORDER (OBMC 06.17) of
the Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing dated March
2, 1999, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to OBMC 506.17 and permit the
fan to be installed as indicated on
the drawing, and to grant the variance to the ten feet (10 ft.) to the
property line rule, noting that the
Appellant agrees to relocate the
fans should the adjacent property be
developed within ten feet (10 ft.) of
the property line. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Williams and seconded by Mr.
Saunders for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Docket, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC):
A-232-98—Bridget Terese Stefen.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
* * *
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr.
Saunders for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC):
A-6-99—Daniel Holub.
A-14-99—George Evans, Jr.
A-27-99—Ronald Jamison.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
* * *
APPROVAL OF AMENDED
RESOLUTION:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Williams and seconded by Mr.
Sullivan for Approval and Adoption
of the Amended Resolution as presented by the Secretary for the following Docket, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC):
A-12-99—Cynthia Carter.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Williams and seconded by Mr.
Sullivan for Approval of the Minutes
as
presented
by
the
Secretary
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland:
March 17, 1999
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

JOSEPH F. DENK,
CHAIRMAN

PUBLIC NOTICE
The following are in violation of
C.O. 623.14:
Richard Alt, last known address,
1742 West 29th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44113.
Richard Norris, last known address, 10127 South Blvd., Apartment
2, Cleveland, Ohio 44108.

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

authorized by Ordinance No. 117497, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, July 16, 1997.
Pre-Sort Mail Services, for the various Divisions of City Government,
Department of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 272-99,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, March 22, 1999.
March 31, 1999 and April 7, 1999
THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 1999
Continental
Airlines
Cleveland
2000, Bid Package 19B, Hydrant
Fuel System - Installation, for the
Department of Port Control.
A DEPOSIT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
WILL
BE
REQUIRED FOR EACH SET OF
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
DOCUMENTS ARE AVAILABLE
THROUGH MORSE DIESEL INTERNATIONAL,
CONTINENTAL
AIRLINES, INC., CTC BUILDING,
5900
SOUTH
CARGO
ROAD,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.
BIDS WILL BE RECEIVED AT
THE SAME ADDRESS UNTIL 3:00
P.M. THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 1999.
PLEASE REFER QUESTIONS TO
MORSE DIESEL AT (216) 265-4880
OR FAX (216) 265-4908.
March 31, 1999 and April 7, 1999

For All Departments

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 1999

Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the
Office
of
Equal
Opportunity
(“OEO”) prior to the date of bid
opening or submission of proposals
or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business
enterprise code or with representations made on these forms may
result in cancellation of the contract
or other civil or criminal penalties.”

Labor and Materials to Repair Tree
Lawns, for the Divisions of Water
and
Water
Pollution
Control,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 80997, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 9, 1997.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 14, 1999
Northern Telecom Meridian 1 PBX Upgrade - Expansion, for the various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, as

Large Water Meters, for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section 129.25 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976.
Small Water Meters, for the Division
of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Section
129.25 of the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland, 1976.
Labor and Materials Necessary to
Fabricate Ring and Pinion Gears,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2164-98,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, February 1, 1999.
Rental of One (1) Concrete Rock
Saw, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 216898, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, February 1,
1999.
March 31, 1999 and April 7, 1999
THURSDAY, APRIL 22, 1999
Streetlighting Material, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Section 129.26 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976.
A MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE HELD ON THURSDAY, APRIL 8, 1999, 10:00 A.M. AT
CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER,
1300 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO.

Laboratory Services for Protozoa
Analysis,
for
the
Division
of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 485-96, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, May 6,
1996.
Mobile Radar Units, for the Division
of Police, Department of Public
Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1954-98, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 14, 1998.
Maintenance,
Repair
and/or
Replacement of HVAC Systems at
Various Locations, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 194398, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, December 14,
1998.
March 31, 1999 and April 7, 1999
FRIDAY, APRIL 23, 1999
Allison Transmission, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 2099-98, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, February
1, 1999.
April 7, 1999 and April 14, 1999
THURSDAY, APRIL 29, 1999
Purchase and Repair of Electrical
Motors and Pumps, for the Division of Property Management,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 2055-98, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, December 14, 1998.
Labor and Materials to Maintain and
Repair Air Conditioning Systems,
for the various Divisions of the
Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 200298, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, December 14,
1998.
Urban Forest Maintenance Service,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
2054-98, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, December
14, 1998.
April 7, 1999 and April 14, 1999
THURSDAY, MAY 13, 1999
Continental Airlines - Cleveland 2000
- Main Terminal Expansion Bid
Package 17 - Baggage Handling
System, for the Department of
Port Control.
A DEPOSIT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
WILL
BE
REQUIRED FOR EACH SET OF
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
DOCUMENTS ARE AVAILABLE
FROM MORSE DIESEL INTERNATIONAL,
CONTINENTAL
AIRLINES, INC., CTC BUILDING, 5900
SOUTH CARGO ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.

BIDS WILL BE RECEIVED AT
THE SAME ADDRESS UNTIL 3:00
P.M. THURSDAY, MAY 13, 1999.
THE DIVISION OF PURCHASES
AND SUPPLIES HAS NO FURTHER INFORMATION AVAILABLE
ON THIS
PROJECT.
PLEASE
ADDRESS ALL INQUIRIES/REQUESTS TO MORSE DIESEL AT
(216) 265-4880 OR FAX (216) 2654908.
April 7, 1999 and April 14, 1999

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 1271-98.
By Councilman Jackson (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate all that
portion of East 53rd Street.
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate
all that portion of East 53rd Street,
as hereinafter described, and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate all those portions of the following described real
property:
Being all that portion of EAST
53RD STREET, (50.00 feet wide)
extending
Southerly
from
the
Southerly line of Woodland Avenue
S.E. (99.00 feet wide) to that portion
of East 53rd Street vacated by the
Council of the City of Cleveland by
Ordinance Number 897-68, passed
May 27, 1968.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 29, 1999.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.
Res. No. 1616-98.
By Councilman Cintron (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate all that
portion of Star Court S.W.
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate
all that portion of Star Court
S.W.,
as
hereinafter
described,
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate all those portions of the following described real
property:

Being all that portion of STAR
COURT S.W., (12.00 feet wide)
extending Easterly from the Easterly line of West 43rd Street (12.00
feet wide) to its Easterly terminus.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Res. No. 36-99.
By Councilman Cimperman (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate all
that portion of Rockwell Avenue
N.E.
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied that there is good cause to
vacate all that portion of Rockwell
Avenue
N.E.
as
hereinafter
described, and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate all those portions of the following described real
property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all that
portion of ROCKWELL AVENUE
N.E. (60.00 feet wide) extending
Westerly from the Westerly line of
East 21st Street (66.00 feet wide) to
that portion of Rockwell Avenue
N.E. vacated by the Council of the
City of Cleveland by Ordinance
Number 87-68, passed on January 8,
1968.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Res. No. 340-99.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution urging
HUD to demolish the Belvoir-Cliffs
apartment building and to grant
title to the property to the City of
Cleveland for compatible neighborhood development.
Whereas, the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) owns the Belvoir-Cliffs, a 160
unit apartment building, located at
the intersection of Belvoir Blvd. and
Cliffview Road in the Euclid Park
community of the City of Cleveland;
and

Whereas, HUD was forced to
assume ownership and control of
the building because its previous
owner let the property fall into
severe disrepair, as evidenced by
numerous significant code violations and its very low occupancy
rate; and
Whereas, Belvoir-Cliffs has become a haven for illegal drug
activities and prostitution, presenting a profound safety risk to
the
surrounding
neighborhood;
and
Whereas, the configuration of
the buildings lacks recreational
and structural amenities and presents a barracks-like appearance,
detracting
from
the
aesthetic
appearance of the neighborhood
and making it markedly different
from the surrounding ranch-style
houses; and
Whereas, the citizens of the community, in the interest of safety and
well-being
of
the
neighborhood,
have expressed their desire to have
the facility demolished, as opposed
to HUD performing a cosmetic alteration of the apartment building;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council of the
City of Cleveland urges HUD to act
in the best interest of the residents
of the City of Cleveland and to
demolish the Belvoir-Cliffs apartment building, as it unsafe and
undesirable for low income housing.
Section 2. That, upon demolition of
Belvoir-Cliffs, HUD grant title to the
property to the City of Cleveland so
that it may be developed in a use
that is compatible with and meets
the needs of the surrounding community.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is hereby requested to transmit
a copy of this Resolution to Andrew
Cuomo, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development; Mayor Michael White; and
Linda Hudecek, Director of Community Development.
Section 4. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 1, 1999.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 375-99.
By Councilman Cintron (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate all that
portion of Brough Court S.W.
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied that there is good cause to
vacate all that portion of Brough
Court
S.W.
as
hereinafter
described, and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate all those portions of the following described real
property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all that
portion of: BROUGH COURT S.W.
(14.00 feet wide) extending Westerly from the Westerly line of West
40th Place (width varies) to the
Easterly line of West 41st Street
(60.00 feet wide).
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Res. No. 533-99.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution appointing
an
assessment
equalization
board to hear objections to estimated assessments with respect to the
improvement of portions of the
downtown area of the City of Cleveland by removing, planting, trimming, watering and creating or
excavating cutouts for shade trees
and other related activities in and
along the streets of portions of the
City of Cleveland.
Whereas, this Council did, on the
12th day of October, 1998, duly
adopt Resolution No. 929-98, declaring therein the necessity of improving portions of the downtown area
of the City of Cleveland by removing, planting, trimming, watering
and creating or excavating cutouts
for shade trees and other related
activities in and along the streets
of portions of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, pursuant to said resolution, the estimated assessments for
said improvement have been prepared and placed on file in the
office of the Clerk of this Council;
and
Whereas, notice of the passage of
said resolution and of the filing of
said estimated assessments has been
duly served upon all property owners to be assessed in the manner
provided by law; and
Whereas, written objection to said
estimated assessments have been
filed by one or more such property
owners; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Dorothy M. Miller,
Jan Dean and Gladys Faye Callahan, three disinterested freeholders
of said City, be and the same hereby are appointed as an assessment
equalization board, to hear and
determine
all
written
objections
filed in accordance with law to the
estimated
assessments
heretofore
filed with the Clerk of this Council

pursuant to Resolution No. 929-98 of
this Council. Said board is hereby
authorized and directed to equalize
such assessments as it deems proper to conform to the standards prescribed by Resolution No. 929-98 and
by law.
Section 2. That the assessment
equalization board shall meet at
10:00 o’clock, a.m. on the 8th day of
April, 1999, at the Cleveland Convention
Center,
500
Lakeside
Avenue,
Third
Floor
Conference
Room, for the purposes aforesaid,
and upon completion of such hearing and any adjournments thereof,
shall report its recommendations
including any changes which should
be made in the estimated assessments, to this Council.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is authorized
and directed to notify, by certified
mail, each person who has filed
timely written objection to said estimated assessments of the time and
place of the hearing of the assessment equalization board.
Section 4. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Res. No. 534-99.
By Councilman Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to
12301-03 Imperial Ave.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
7649699, Fares Saah, 12301-03 Imperial Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44120, to
Permit No. 5672504 Maysoon T. Inc.,
12301-03 Imperial Ave., Cleveland,
Ohio 44120; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and

Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does
hereby record its objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit from Permit No.
7649699, Fares Saah, 12301-03 Imperial Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44120, to
Permit No. 5672504 Maysoon T. Inc.,
12301-03 Imperial Ave., Cleveland,
Ohio 44120 and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Res. No. 535-99.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 1014
E. 105th St., Fl. Only.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
7999208, 7002 Market Inc. & Yunis M.
Assad, 1014 E. 105th St. Fl. Only,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108, to Permit No.
2485259, Akram Elkhatib, 1014 E.
105th St., Fl. Only, Cleveland, Ohio
44108; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and

Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to the building, safety or
health requirements of the governing body of this County or City;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does
hereby record its objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from Permit No.
7999208, 7002 Market Inc. & Yunis
M. Assad, 1014 E. 105th St. Fl. Only,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108, to Permit
No. 2485259, Akram Elkhatib, 1014
E. 105th St., Fl. Only, Cleveland,
Ohio 44108 and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Res. No. 536-99.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit to
15601 Holmes Ave.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1, C2 and D6
Liquor Permit from Permit No.

8951077, Toczek & Forsell Inc., DBA
The Corner Store, 15601 Holmes
Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44110, to Permit No. 4466992, Kamoe & Kulabah
Place LLC, DBA Kamoe & Kulabah
Place, 15601 Holmes Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1, C2 and D6
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
8951077, Toczek & Forsell Inc., DBA
The Corner Store, 15601 Holmes
Ave, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, to Permit No. 4466992, Kamoe & Kulabah
Place LLC, DBA Kamoe & Kulabah
Place, 15601 Holmes Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Res. No. 537-99.
By Councilman White.
An emergency resolution objecting to the stock transfer of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to 3705 E. 116th
St.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the stock
transfer of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to No. 7171120, Rahi Inc., 3705
E. 116th St., Cleveland, Ohio 44105;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to the building, safety or
health requirements of the governing body of this County or City;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the stock
transfer of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to Permit No. 7171120, Rahi Inc.,
3705 E. 116th St., Cleveland, Ohio
44105 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to

transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Res. No. 548-99.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit to 16420 Euclid Ave., 1st Fl.
& Bsmt., and repealing Res. No. 163698 objecting to said transfer of ownership.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to 16420
Euclid Ave., 1st Fl. & Bsmt., by Res.
No. 1636-98, adopted on September 14,
1998; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw
its
objection
to
the
above transfer of ownership and
consents to said transfer of ownership; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit to 16420 Euclid
Ave., 1st Fl. & Bsmt., be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Res.
No. 1636-98, containing said objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer of
ownership thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized and directed to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one (1) year for the
necessary items of labor and materials necessary to trim trees for
clearance around electrical wires
and street lights in the sum of not
to exceed $150,000.00, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public Utilities. Bids shall be taken in
such manner as to permit an award
to be made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination
of said items as the Board of Control shall determine. Alternate bids
for a period less than one (1) year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is
made for the requirements for the
entire term. That the requirement
contract authorized herein shall be
used only for emergency situations,
and upon each and every use of
said
requirement
contract,
the
Director of Public Utilities shall
notify the President of Council, the
Chairman of the Public Utilities
Committee, the Chairman of the
Finance Committee, and the Clerk
of Council.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
22183)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 1326-97.
By Councilmen Patton and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of labor and
materials necessary to trim trees,
for the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

Ord. No. 1105-98.
By Councilmen White, Zone and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 171.371 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 1605-90,
passed June 18, 1990, relating to payment of costs of attracting directors
and assistants.
Whereas, this Council finds that it
will benefit the public and the City
to attract the most qualified and

experienced candidates to move to
the City and to serve the City in certain positions; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 171.371 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1605-90, passed June
18, 1990, is hereby amended to read
as follows:
Section
171.371
Payment
of
Costs of Attracting Certain Personnel
(a) When the Mayor or a designee
deems it necessary for the successful recruitment of qualified persons
for eligible positions in the service
of the City of Cleveland, as eligible
positions are defined below, he or
she may authorize payment of costs
to recruit such persons and may
authorize payment of reasonable
and necessary expenses incurred by
applicants who live outside of the
Cleveland
metropolitan
area
for
traveling to and from Cleveland for
the purpose of being interviewed for
employment by the City. Reasonable
and necessary travel expenses shall
include lodging, meals, incidentals,
and transportation from the applicant’s place of residence, or mileage,
provided that payment for mileage
shall not exceed the round-trip airfare of a common carrier and provided further that no payment shall
be authorized for:
(1) Fines, penalties, and/or forfeitures;
(2) Tobacco, alcoholic beverages,
entertainment, gratuities, personal
telephone calls and telegrams, or
other like personal items;
(3) First-class travel accommodations
unless
coach
or
economy
accommodations were not available;
or
(4) Meals in lieu of other meals
or food services provided during the
period of travel by a carrier and
included in the fare charged.
(b) The Mayor or a designee may
approve payment of costs to search
for and recruit and travel expenses
for applicants for eligible positions,
which are positions that meet the
following criteria:
(1) Director, Assistant Director,
Secretary to the Director, Chief
Counsel, Commissioner, Special Assistant to the Mayor, Executive
Assistant to the Mayor and Secretary to the Mayor; or
(2) The following highly specialized technical personnel:
Air Pollution Control Engineer;
Airport Chief Engineer; Airport
Comptroller; Airport Safety Manager; Architect; Air Trade Development Manager; Assistant Director of Law; Assistant Superintendent of Electric Transmission and
Distribution; Chief Air Pollution
Inspector; Chief Architect; Chief
Assistant Director of Law; Chief
Building Official; Chief Engineer Civil; Chief Engineer - Mechani-

cal;
Chief
of
Environmental
Health - Engineering; Chief Plan
Examiner;
Chief Traffic Engineer; Chief of Water Distribution
and Water Plant Manager; City
Budget Manager; City Comptroller;
City Treasurer; Consulting Engineer;
Deputy
Commissioner
of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport; Deputy Commissioner of
Convention Center, Stadium and
West Side Market; Electrical/Electronic
Engineer;
Engineer
of
Hydraulic Surveys; Manager of
Data Processing Center; Manager
of Parks and Urban Forestry;
Manager of Electric System Operation; Secretary to the Civil Service Commission; Superintendent
of Electric Transmission and Distribution.
(c) Payment of authorized travel expenses may be made directly
to a vendor, or the applicant may
be
reimbursed
for
authorized
expenses
paid
out
of
pocket.
Claims for payment of authorized
expenses, other than mileage and
incidentals, shall be submitted to
the Mayor or a designee and shall
be accompanied by invoices and/or
receipts showing payment of such
claimed expenses. Invoices and/or
receipts
showing
payment
of
overnight lodging expenses shall
have clearly identified thereon the
rate for the accommodations utilized.
The maximum amount that may
be paid to any one person who is a
candidate for one of the eligible
positions for travel and related
interview expenses shall be two
thousand
five
hundred
dollars
($2500.00) per interview trip.
(d) The Director of Finance is
authorized to pay funds or reimburse costs for the recruiting and
travel expense payments authorized
in this Section from funds appropriated for this purpose.
(e) If necessary to obtain the services of persons for eligible positions, as defined above, the City
may pay moving expenses incurred
by them in relocating to the City
upon presentation of verifying documents, as long as those persons
have moved from a distance consistent with the Internal Revenue Service
distance
test
for
moving
expense deductions.
(f) The phrase “moving expenses”
includes
expenses
incurred
for
transportation
to
Cleveland
to
secure housing, as well as food and
lodging expenses for a period not to
exceed five (5) days, incurred while
engaged in securing housing. Moving expenses also shall include all
lodging, food, and transportation
expenses of family and household
goods and personal effects which
are incurred solely for the purpose
of relocating, from departure of
such family and goods from the
place of current residence until the
time that the family and possessions
arrive in Cleveland, unless such
expenses have been otherwise reimbursed.
The authorized maximum rate for
moving expenses as defined herein

shall
be
ten
thousand
dollars
($10,000).
(g) The Director of Finance is
authorized to pay funds or reimburse costs for the moving expense
payments authorized in this section
from funds appropriated for that
purpose.
(h) A person who receives moving expenses shall sign an agreement that should such person voluntarily leave the City’s employ
within
one (1) year of initial
appointment to a position, he or she
shall reimburse the City for all moving expenses plus any applicable
interest as calculated pursuant to
relevant Internal Revenue Code provisions. The Mayor may waive or
modify the repayment amount upon
the showing of mitigating circumstances.
(i) The Director of Personnel and
Human Resources shall notify the
Clerk of Council, with a copy to
each Council member, when any
costs authorized by this section are
paid.
(j) The authority granted in this
section shall expire and be of no
further force and effect two (2)
years after the effective date of this
section.
Section 2. That existing Section
171.371 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by
Ordinance
No.
1605-90,
passed June 18, 1990, is hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 1599-98.
By Councilman Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Old (Relocated) Grayton Road hereinafter described.
Whereas, on the 15th day of June,
1998 the Council of the City of
Cleveland adopted Resolution No.
1018-98 declaring its intention to
vacate a portion of Old (Relocated)
Grayton
Road,
hereinafter
described.
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above Resolution No. 1018-98 has
been served upon the owners of all
the property abutting Old (Relocated) Grayton Road, affected by said
Resolution, notifying the said property owners of the time and place
at which objections can be heard
before the Board of Revision of
Assessments, and
Whereas, on the 3rd day of September, 1998, the Board of Revision
of Assessments approved the vacation of Old (Relocated) Grayton
Road,
hereinafter
described,
in
accordance with the provisions of

Section 176 of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating Old (Relocated) Grayton Road,
hereinafter described and that it
will not be detrimental to the general interest and ought to be made;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That all that portion of
Old (Relocated) Grayton Road situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
that part of Old Grayton Road
(60.00 feet wide), as shown by the
Grayton
Road
Alteration
and
Improvement
Plan
No.
M-4493
recorded in Volume 192, Page 41 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records,
and sometimes known as Relocated
Grayton Road, lying Northerly of
the Northeasterly prolongation of
the most Southerly line of a parcel
of
land
conveyed
to
Emerald
Research Park Ltd. By deed dated
April 24, 1997, and recorded in Volume 97-3626, Page 47 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and lying Southwesterly of the following described
line:
Commencing in the centerline of
Old Grayton Road as aforesaid at
a point of curvature therein at station 27+70.93; thence North 75°-08'00" East, and at right angles to
said centerline, 30.00 feet to the
Easterly
right-of-way
thereof;
thence Northeasterly along said
right-of-way being the arc of a
curve deflecting to the right, and
having a radius of 5699.58 feet, a
tangent of 109.74 feet, a chord
bearing
North
23°-40'04"
East,
219.44 feet, an arc distance of
219.45 feet to the principal place of
beginning
of
the
following
described line:
Thence Northeasterly along the
arc of a curve deflecting to the right
and having a radius of 1530.08 feet,
a tangent of 149.81 feet, a chord
bearing
North
14°-37'-39"
East,
298.20 feet, an arc distance of 298.67
feet to the Westerly right-of-way of
Old Grayton Road as aforesaid and
the Northwesterly terminus of said
line, be and the same is hereby
vacated.
Section 2. That the Clerk of
Council be and she is hereby directed to notify the Auditor of Cuyahoga County of the vacation of all
that portion of Old (Relocated)
Grayton Road, herein provided by
sending him a copy of this Ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 2101-98.
By
Councilmen
Gordon
and
Johnson
(by
departmental
request).
An eme rgency ordinance aut horiz in g the
Direct or of Public
Health to ap ply for and acce pt a
grant from th e Oh io D epartment
of Health f or the
1999 Sta te
C hild Lea d
Poison
Prevention
Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the
approximate
amount
of
$75,884.00, and any other funds as
they become available during the
grant term, from the Ohio Department of Health, to conduct the 1999
State Child Lead Poison Prevention
Program, for the purposes set forth
in the application and according
thereto; that the Director of Public
Health is hereby authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under said grant; and that
said funds be and they hereby are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the application for said
grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 2101-98-A, made
a part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That, prior to spending
any of the grant funds accepted pursuant to this ordinance, the Director
of Public Health shall appear before
the Council Committee on Public
Health to identify how the funds
will be used.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 2114-98.
By
Councilmen
Jackson
and
Johnson
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic
Development to enter into a contract with the Center for Employment Training — Cleveland, Inc. to
partially finance an employment
training program which will offer
job training and support services

to the long-term unemployed and
will serve Empowerment Zone residents.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
with the Center for Employment
Training — Cleveland, Inc., in an
amount not to exceed $300,000, to
partially finance an employment
training program which will offer
job training and support services to
the long-term unemployed and will
serve Empowerment Zone residents.
Section 2. That the contract authorized in Section 1 shall be paid from
Fund No. 18 SF 007, Request No.
23761.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 5, 1999.

Ord. No. 2167-98.
By Councilmen Patmon and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of upgrading
the heating boilers at the Nottingham
Waterworks
Facility,
and authorizing the Director of
Public Utilities to enter into contract for the making of such
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of upgrading the heating boilers at the Nottingham Waterworks
Facility, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, by
contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding for a gross price for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to enter into contract for the making of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
said improvement may be treated as
a separate improvement, and each,
or any combination, of such trades

or components may be the subject of
a separate contract for a gross
price. Upon request of said director
the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule of unit prices, including profit and overhead, for all
items constituting units of said
improvement.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF
215, 52 SF 217 and 52 SF 219,
Request No. 23424.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 2183-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney, Rybka
and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating funds obtained from Norfolk
Southern; determining the method of
making the public improvement of
constructing railroad grade separations at Nottingham/Dille Road and
London Road; authorizing the Director of Public Service to enter into
contract for the making of such
improvement; authorizing the Director of Public Service to employ professional services necessary to perform architectural, engineering and
other services necessary to design
the public improvement; authorizing
said director to enter into such other
agreements necessary to complete
this improvement; and authorizing
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies to acquire for right-of-way
purposes such real property as is
necessary to make the public improvement.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 978-98, passed June 8, 1998, this
Council approved and ratified an
agreement
entered
into
by the
Mayor with Norfolk Southern Corporation (“Norfolk Southern”) which,
among other things, required a
financial contribution of up to
$1,500,000 to Cleveland from the
railroad in order to construct two
grade separation projects, one at
Nottingham/Dille Road and one at
London Road (the “Agreement”);
and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
appropriate funds received in accordance with the Agreement for the
purpose of making the public improvement of constructing railroad
grade
separations
at
Nottingham/Dille Road and London Road;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

Section 1. That this Council hereby appropriates the funds received
from Norfolk Southern pursuant to
the Agreement in the amount of One
Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($1,500,000.00), from Fund No. 13
SF 212, for the purposes of constructing railroad grade crossings at
Nottingham/Dille Road and London
Road, retaining the services of professional consultants necessary to
design the improvement, and the
acquisition of real property for
right-of-way
purposes
such
real
property, pursuant to the following
schedule:
Personnel . . . . . . . . . . . . . -0Other Expenses . . . . . . . $1,500,000
Section 2. That, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of constructing railroad grade
separations
at
Nottingham/Dille
Road and London Road, including
paving, grading, drainage, curbing,
sidewalks, lighting, streetscaping,
traffic signals, and other necessary
appurtenances
(the
“Improvement”), for the Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of Public Service, by contract
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding
upon a unit basis for the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to enter into contract
for the making of the Improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the Improvement, provided, however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of the Improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to employ by contract
one or more professional architects,
engineers, one or more firms of
architects and engineers, and other
consultants necessary for the purpose of supplementing the regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services
necessary
to
design
the
Improvement.
The selection of said consultant
or consultants for such services
shall be made by the Board of Control upon the nomination of the
Director of Public Service from a
list of qualified consultants available for such employment as may
be determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of
Public Service, for the purpose of
compiling such a list. The compensation to be paid for such services
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Service, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to enter into such other agreements

as are necessary to complete the
planning and construction of the
Improvement,
which
agreements
shall contain such terms and conditions as the Director of Law determines shall best protect the public
interest.
Section 6. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is hereby
authorized to acquire for right-ofway purposes such real property as
is necessary to make the Improvement. The consideration to be paid
for such property shall not exceed
its appraised value.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to execute on behalf of the City all
documents
necessary
to
acquire
such property and to employ and
pay all fees for title companies, surveys, escrows, appraiser, and all
other costs necessary for the acquisition of such property.
Section 8. That the costs of the
Improvement, services and property
acquisition
herein
contemplated
shall be paid from Fund No. 13 SF
212, Request No. 24556.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 99-99.
By Councilmen Coats and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for a grant from the State of
Ohio — Office of Criminal Justice
Services
for
the
Juvenile
Accountability Incentive Block Grant
Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to apply for a grant in the amount
of $540,546.73, from the State of Ohio
— Office of Criminal Justice Services,
to
conduct
the
Juvenile
Accountability
Incentive
Block
Grant Program, for the purposes set
forth in the application and according thereto.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 99-99-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 136-99.
By Councilmen Jackson and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contract
without competitive bidding with
Compaq Computer Corporation, f.k.a.
Digital Equipment Corp. for maintenance service on Digital equipment
and software, for the Department of
Community Development.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Compaq Computer Corporation, f.k.a.
Digital Equipment Corp. Therefore,
the Director of Community Development is hereby authorized to make
a written contract with said Compaq
Computer Corporation, f.k.a. Digital
Equipment Corp., for the period of
March 1999 through February 2000,
on the basis of its proposal dated
September 15, 1998, for maintenance
service of Digital equipment and
software, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the
Department of Community Development.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 14 SF 024
and
01-80-05-0380,
Request
No.
23120.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 172-99.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An
emergency
ordinance
to
amend the title and Section 1 of
Ordinance No. 1065-98, passed July
29, 1998, relating to the procurement
by requirement contract
of
the
rental of digital multi-functional
copier/printers and analog copiers
for the various divisions of City
government.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1065-98,
passed July 29, 1998, is hereby
amended to read, respectively, as
follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the procurement
by requirement contract of the
rental of digital multi-functional
copier/printers and analog copiers
for the various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed
three
years,
with
two
one-year
options to renew.
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of three
years with two (2) options, exercisable by the Director of Finance, to
extend for one year each, for the
necessary items of digital multifunctional copier/printers and analog copiers in the approximate
amounts as procured during the preceding term, to be procured by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the various divisions of City government.
Bids shall be taken in such manner
as to permit an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than
a year may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 106598, passed July 29, 1998, are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 173-99.
By Councilmen Willis and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into contract with Cleveland Housing Network to provide
various customer services to low
income home owners or for rental
property owners, for the Divisions of
Water, Cleveland Public Power and
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized to enter into contract with
Cleveland Housing Network to provide the following services, which
services shall be made available to
eligible persons in all neighborhoods of the City of Cleveland for
low income home owners or for
rental
property
owners
whose
owner meets the income guidelines
and who are City of Cleveland Division of Water customers: provide
wiring up-grades, install fluorescent bulb, replace refrigerator and
remove the old ones, install water
conservation
devices,
to
correct
minor plumbing problems; and to
repair or replace roofs, water service lines or broken sewer lines.
The Director of Public Utilities
shall provide annual reports to the
member or members of Council in
whose ward services are rendered
pursuant to the contract authorized
herein.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract authorized by Section 1
herein shall be paid from Fund No.
52 SF 001 or from such other funds
of the Divisions of Water Pollution
Control, Cleveland Public Power
and Water, Department of Public
Utilities deemed appropriate by the
Director of Finance. (RL 24046) For
services performed pursuant to this
contract by the Division of Cleveland Public Power, the funds shall
be spent in accordance with the proposed budget contained in File No.
173-99-A.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Utilities shall provide information on a quarterly basis to
Division of Water and Cleveland
Public
Power
customers
with
respect to the services authorized
pursuant to the above-authorized
contracts.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 178-99.
By
Councilmen
Gordon
and
Johnson
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to apply
for and accept a grant from the Western Reserve Area Agency on Aging
for the 1999 Title III-B G.O.W. / Supportive Services / Chore Worker Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Aging is hereby authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
amount of $114,855.00, from the
Western Reserve Area Agency on
Aging, to conduct the 1999 Title IIIB G.O.W./Supportive Services, Chore
Worker Program, for the purposes
set forth in the application and
according thereto; that the Director
of Aging is hereby authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under said grant; and that
said funds be and they hereby are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the application for said
grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 178-99-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That, prior to spending
any of the grant funds accepted pursuant to this ordinance, the Director
of Aging shall appear before the
Council Committee on Public Health
to identify how the funds will be
used.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 181-99.
By Councilmen Coats and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of meals for prisoners at the
Police Justice Center and district
jails, for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of
meals for prisoners at the Police
Justice Center and district jails in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all

items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than one year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
24390)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 183-99.
By Councilmen Coats and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to apply for and accept grants
from the Department of Treasury,
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms for the Gang Resistance
Education and Training Program;
and to enter into contract for the
purchase of equipment and supplies needed to implement the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept grants for
the Gang Resistance Education and
Training
(“GREAT”)
Program,
each year for a period of five
years, in the approximate amount
of $300,000 for the first project
year, for the purposes set forth in
the
applications
and
according
thereto; that the Director of Public
Safety is hereby authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under said grants; and that
said funds be and they hereby are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the applications for said
grants.
Section 2. That the application
for the first project year of the
grants, File No. 183-99-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.

Section 3. That for each of the
project years described above, the
Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into contract for
such
materials
and
equipment
necessary
to
implement
the
GREAT Program as described in
the application contained in the
File, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis, payable
from the fund or funds to which
are credited the grant proceeds
accepted pursuant to Section 1 of
this ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 186-99.
By Councilmen White and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance a u t h orizing the Director of Personnel
and Human Resources to enter
into contract with Merrick House
and Towards Employment, Inc. to
provide services under Title II of
the
Job
Training
Partnership
Act.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources is
authorized to enter into contract
with Merrick House for the delivery of basic education skills and
GED preparation training activities
under the Job Training Partnership
Act, in an amount not to exceed
$49,350.00.
Section 2. That the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources is
authorized to enter into contract
with Towards Employment, Inc. for
the delivery of central services
under the Job Training Partnership
Act, in an amount not to exceed
$297,650.00.
Secti on 3 . Tha t t he cos t o f the
con tracts aut ho riz ed ab ov e sh all
be p ai d f rom Fun d N o. 15 SF
081,
Request
Nos .
229 73
and
22975.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Ord. No. 191-99.

By Councilmen Sweeney, Jackson,
Robinson and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic
Development to enter into an Enterprise Zone Agreement with Kennametal, Inc. to provide for a ten
year abatement for certain tangible
personal property and real estate
taxes as an incentive to relocate
and consolidate its operations to
18105 Cleveland Parkway, Cleveland, Ohio in the Cleveland Area
Enterprize Zone.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 948-95, passed June 19, 1995,
this Council designated an area
which is in the City of Cleveland
and described in File No. 948-95-A,
as the Cleveland Area Enterprise
Zone
(the
“Zone”) pursuant
to
Chapter 5709 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains the characteristics set forth
in Section 5709.61(A) of the Revised
Code and certified said area as an
“Urban Jobs and Enterprise Zone”
pursuant to Chapter 5709 of the
Revised Code; and
Whereas, Kennametal, Inc. (the
“Enterprise”) has proposed to relocate and consolidate its operations
to 18105 Cleveland Parkway in the
City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that, but for
abatement of personal property and
real estate taxes the Enterprise
would be at a competitive disadvantage by operating at this location; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the immediate
preservation of the public peace,
safety, property, and welfare and
for the further reason that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, such assistance being immediately necessary
or such jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby approves the application of Kennametal, Inc. for enterprise zone
incentives on the basis that Kennametal, Inc. is qualified by financial
responsibility
and
business
experience to create and preserve
employment opportunities in the
Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone and
to improve the economic climate of
the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Kennametal, Inc. to provide for a ten (10)
year abatement for certain tangible personal property and real
estate taxes as an incentive to
relocate and consolidate its operations to 18105 Cleveland Parkway
in
Cleveland,
Ohio;
said
abatement shall be subject to
annual review of the Tax Incentive Review Council.

Section 3. That the terms of said
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Executive Summary contained
in File No. 191-99-A. The terms of
said file notwithstanding, the terms
of the tax abatement shall not be
amended, nor shall the tax abatement
be assignable or transferrable to any
entity, without the prior legislative
authorization by Cleveland City Council.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept
fees in an amount not to exceed the
maximum allowable under Chapter
5709 of the Revised Code and such
funds are hereby appropriated for
the purposes set forth in Chapter
5709 of the Revised Code. Such fees
shall be deposited to and expended
from fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees
Fund.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
agreement and that said agreement
shall contain such terms and provisions as he deems necessary to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 192-99.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Robinson and Johnson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the City Planning Commission to apply for and
accept grants from the George Gund
Foundation, the Cleveland Foundation, and Cleveland Tomorrow for
the
Cleveland
Downtown
Plan
Implementation
Studies
Program;
and authorizing the employment of
consultants in conjunction with the
Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission is hereby
authorized to apply for and accept
grants in the total amount of
$200,000: $75,000 from the George
Gund Foundation, $100,000 from the
Cleveland Foundation, and $25,000
from Cleveland Tomorrow, to conduct the Cleveland Downtown Plan
Implementation
Studies
Program,
for the purposes set forth in the
applications and according thereto;
that the Director of the City Planning Commission is hereby authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under said grants; and
that said funds be and they hereby
are appropriated for the purposes
set forth in the applications for said
grants.

Section 2. That the applications
for said grants, File No. 192-99-A,
made a part hereof as if fully
rewritten herein, are hereby approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission is hereby
authorized to employ by contract
one or more consultants or one or
more firms of consultants for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to implement the
program.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of the City
Planning Commission from a list of
qualified consultants available for
such employment as may be determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of the City
Planning Commission for the purpose of compiling such a list. The
compensation to be paid for such
services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control and shall not exceed the
dollar amount of the grants received
and appropriated for this purpose.
The contract herein authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of the City
Planning Commission, and certified
by the Director of Finance. The
Director of City Planning shall not
present a resolution to the Board of
Control for the selection of a consultant
until
the
Director
first
reports to this Council on the proposals received, the proposed scope
of work, the proposed compensation,
and the Director’s recommendation
for a selection. Any contract entered
into
under
this
authority
shall
include a provision requiring that
the consultant(s) report back to this
Council at least quarterly.
Section 4. That the costs for such
services herein contemplated shall
be paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted pursuant to Section 1
of this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Ord. No. 193-99.
By
Councilmen
Robinson
and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the City Planning
Commission to apply for and accept
grants from the George Gund Foundation, the Cleveland Foundation, and
from other public and private entities
for the Census 2000 Complete Count
Program; and to enter into contract
with Neighborhood Centers Association of Cleveland to implement the
program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission is hereby
authorized to apply for and accept
grants in the amount of $50,000 from
the George Gund Foundation, $50,000
from the Cleveland Foundation and
any other grants or gifts from public and private entities, to conduct
the Census 2000 Complete Count Program, for the purposes set forth in
the application and according thereto; that the Director of the City
Planning
Commission
is
hereby
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the application for
said grant. When grant funds are
received, the City Planning Council
Committee shall be notified via letter.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 193-99-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission is authorized to enter into contract with
Neighborhood Centers Association of
Cleveland to operate as the City’s
fiscal agent for the implementation
of the program.
Section 4. That the cost of the
agreement authorized above shall be
paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant and
gift proceeds accepted pursuant to
Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 241-99.
By Councilmen Jones and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of de-icer, for the Division
of Park Maintenance and Properties,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of one year for the necessary items
of de-icer in the approximate amount
as purchased during the preceding
year, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division of

Park Maintenance and Properties,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties. Bids shall be taken
in such manner as to permit an
award to be made for all items as a
single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of
said items as the Board of Control
shall determine. Alternate bids for a
period less than a year may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
22426)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 242-99.
By Councilmen Jones and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to employ one
or more physicians to provide physical examinations for children and
staff attending overnight camp during the 1999 summer season.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to employ by contract one or more physicians for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to provide physical
examinations for children and staff
attending overnight camp during
the 1999 summer season.
The selection of said physicians
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties from a
list of qualified physicians available
for such employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties for the
purpose of compiling such a list.
The compensation to be paid for
such services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, approved by
the Director of Parks, Recreation

and Properties, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs for such
services herein contemplated shall
be paid from Fund No. 01-70-04-0380,
Request No. 20291.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 243-99.
By Councilmen Jones and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
enter into contract with the Cleveland Municipal Football Association
to conduct a City-wide football program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized and directed to
enter into contract with the Cleveland Municipal Football Association
to conduct a City-wide football program, in an amount not to exceed
$43,000, payable from Fund No. 01-7004-0380, Request No. 21118.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 245-99.
By Councilmen Gordon and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of inmate clothing, bedding and
shoes, for the Division of Correction,
Department of Public Health.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of
inmate clothing, bedding and shoes
in the estimated sum of $34,000.00,
to be purchased by the Commis-

sioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division
of Correction, Department of Public
Health. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a
period less than a year may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies until provision is made for
the requirements for the entire
year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
24677)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Ord. No. 246-99.
By Councilmen Gordon and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Cuyahoga County Solid Waste
District for the 1999 Solid Waste
Disposal Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the approximate amount of $129,948
and such other funds as may become
available during the grant period,
from the Cuyahoga County Solid
Waste District, to conduct the 1999
Solid Waste Disposal Program, for
the purposes set forth in the application and according thereto; that
the Director of Public Health is
hereby authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds under said
grant; and that said funds be and
they hereby are appropriated for the
purposes set forth in the application
for said grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 246-99-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That, prior to spending
any of the grant funds accepted pursuant to this ordinance, the Director
of Public Health shall appear before
the Council Committee on Public

Health to identify how the funds
will be used.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Ord. No. 255-99.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to apply
for and accept a grant from the
Board of County Commissioners for
the 1999 Second District Probation
Program, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
apply for and accept a grant in the
amount of $27,341, from the Board of
County Commissioners, to conduct
the 1999 Second District Probation
Program, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court for the purposes set
forth in the application and according thereto; that the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
said grant; and that said funds be
and they hereby are appropriated for
the purposes set forth in the application for said grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 255-99-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, including the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide
cash matching funds in the sum of
$9,115.00, payable from Fund No. 0101-15-0901, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Ord. No. 256-99.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to apply
for and accept a grant from the
State of Ohio Office of the Governor’s Highway Safety Representative for the 1999 Traffic Intervention Program, on behalf of the
Cleveland Municipal Court.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
apply for and accept a grant in the
amount of $72,000, from the State of
Ohio Office of the Governor’s Highway Safety Representative, to conduct the 1999 Traffic Intervention
Program, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, for the purposes
set forth in the application and
according thereto; that the Director
of Finance is hereby authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under said grant; and that
said funds be and they hereby are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the application for said
grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 256-99-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 259-99.
By Councilmen Coats, Polensek,
Jones and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
contract with Salvation Army, for
administrating
and
facilitating
recreational services in Ward 11, for
the Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into contract with Salvation Army (Temple
Corps), 17625 Grovewood Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio, or its designee, for
professional services necessary to
administer
and
facilitate
recreational services in the Collinwood
community in Ward 11 in the total
sum of not exceed $55,000 payable
from Fund No. 01-70-04-0380, Request No. 21116, for the Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 260-99.
By Councilmen Jones and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
contract with City Year to perform
community service work and to collaborate
with
various
non-profit
agencies.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into contract with City Year to perform
community service work and to collaborate with non-profit agencies,
in
an
amount
not
to
exceed
$100,000.00, payable from Fund No.
01-70-04-0380, Request No. 21119, for
a period of year beginning June 1,
1999.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Ord. No. 265-99.
By Councilmen Jones and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into an
agreement with Neighborhood Centers Association to implement educational, recreational and cultural
programs in various school buildings during evening hours.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into an
agreement with Neighborhood Centers Association to implement educational, recreational and cultural
programs in various school buildings during evening hours in accordance with the recommendations
and pilot program proposed by the
Committee of the Cleveland Summit
on Education, in an amount not to
exceed One Hundred Fifty Thousand
Dollars ($150,000.00), payable from
Fund No. 01-70-04-0380, Request No.
21117.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 266-99.
By Councilmen Jones and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into a
contract with the National Junior
Tennis League of Cleveland to provide a summer tennis program.
Whereas, the City does not provide a summer tennis program at its
summer recreational centers, but
desires to support such a program;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into a
contract
during
June
through
August, 1999 with the National
Junior Tennis League of Cleveland
to provide youth tennis services.
The program shall be conducted at
various locations in the City which
shall include without limitation,
Warsaw Park, Forest Hills, and a
location in Ward 1 acceptable to the
Councilman.
Section 2. That the cost of such
contract, not to exceed $35,000, shall
be paid from Fund No. 01-70-04-0380,
Request No. 21115.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Ord. No. 317-99.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of landfill, transfer station
or material recovery facilities for
the direct haul and disposal of solid
waste, for the Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Department of
Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract or contracts in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the provision of landfill, transfer station and/or material recovery
facilities, in such combination as the
Board of Control shall determine, to
which the City will direct haul solid
wastes for disposal, in the approximate amount for each year of the
term as purchased during the preceding year, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Department of Public Service.
The contract or contracts hereby
authorized shall have an initial term

of one (1) year. The City shall have
one (1) one-year option, exercisable
by the Director of Pubic Service, to
renew and extend the term. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items of services as a single contract, or by separate contracts for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine.
Bids shall also be taken so as to
permit an award to be made for provision of such services citywide or
by separate contracts for the districts determined by the Director of
Public Service. Alternate bids for a
period less than the initial term may
be taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire period.
Section 2. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 to
the contrary, the Director of Public
Service may require that each bid
be accompanied by a single bond
securing both the execution of a
contract and the performance of the
initial one-year term of each contract. If a single bond securing both
execution and performance is required by the Director, it shall be
substantially in accordance with the
form attached hereto as Exhibit “A”.
Each bond, whether to secure the
execution of a contract, its performance, or both, shall be in an
amount determined by the Director
of Public Service. The Director may
also require that the performance of
each contract be secured in any
option year by a performance bond
or bonds, each in an amount determined by the Director. Each bond
submitted to secure the contract or
contracts authorized by this ordinance shall be executed by a surety authorized to do business in the
State of Ohio and shall be acceptable to the Director of Law.
Section 3. That the cost of such
contract
or
contracts
authorized
hereby shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
23188)
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
EXHIBIT A
BID GUARANTY AND
CONTRACT BOND
KNOW ALL
MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS, that we the undersigned ____________________________
___________________________________
(Name and Address)
as Principal and __________________
(Name of Surety)
as Surety are hereby held and firmly bound unto the City of Cleveland,

hereinafter called the Obligee, in the
penal sum hereinafter stated, pertaining to the bid submitted by the
Principal
to
the
Obligee
on
__________________________ (date) to
undertake the project known as
___________________________________
___________________________________
___________________________________.
The penal sum referred to herein
shall be ___________________________
___________________________________
____________________. For the payment of the penal sum well and
truly to be made, we hereby jointly
and severally bind ourselves, our
heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns.
THE
CONDITION
OF
THE
ABOVE OBLIGATION IS SUCH, that
whereas the above named Principal
has submitted a bid on the above
referred project;
NOW THEREFORE, if the Obligee accepts the bid of the Principal
and the Principal fails to enter into
a proper contract in accordance with
the bid, plans, details, specifications,
and bills of material; and in the
event the Principal pays to the
Obligee the difference not to exceed
ten percent of the penalty hereof
between the amount specified in the
bid and such larger amount for
which the Obligee may in good faith
contract with the next lowest and
best bidder to perform the work covered by the bid; or in the event the
Obligee does not award the contract
to the next lowest and best bidder
and resubmits the project for bidding, the Principal will pay the
Obligee the difference not to exceed
ten percent of the penalty hereof
between the amount specified in the
bid, or the costs in connection with
the resubmission, of printing new
contract documents, required advertising, and printing and mailing
notices
to
prospective
bidders,
whichever is less, then this obligation shall be void, otherwise to
remain in full force and effect. If
the Obligee accepts the bid of the
Principal and the Principal within
ten days after the awarding of the
contract and submitting to the Principal a contract for execution, enters
into a proper contract in accordance
with the bid, plans, details, specifications, and bills of material, which
said contract is made a part of this
bond the same as though set forth
herein; and
IF THE SAID Principal shall well
and faithfully perform each and
every condition of such contract;
and indemnify the Obligee against
all damage suffered by failure to
perform such contract according to
the provisions thereof and in accordance with the plans, details, specifications, and bills of material therefor; and shall pay all lawful claims
of subcontractors, materialmen, and
laborers for labor performed and
materials furnished in the carrying
forward, performing, or completing
said contract; we agreeing and
assenting
that
this
undertaking
shall be for the benefit of any materialman or laborer having a just
claim as well as for the Obligee
herein; then this obligation shall be
void;
otherwise
the
same
shall
remain in full force and effect; it
being
expressly
understood
and
agreed that the liability of the Surety for any and all claims hereunder
shall in no event exceed the penal
amount of this obligation as herein
stated.

THE SAID Surety hereby stipulates and agrees that no modifications, omissions, or additions, in or
to the terms of said contract or in
or to the plans and specifications
therefor shall in any wise affect the
obligations of said Surety on this
bond, and it does hereby waive
notice of any such modifications,
omissions or additions to the terms
of the contract or to the work or to
the specifications.
SIGNED
AND
SEALED
this
_______ day of ____________________,
19___.
PRINCIPAL:
____________

SURETY:
_________________

BY:________

BY:______________
Attorney-in-Fact

TITLE:_______________________
SURETY COMPANY’S ADDRESS:
___________________________________
Agency Name
___________________________________
Street
___________________________________
City
State
ZIP
SURETY AGENT’S ADDRESS:
___________________________________
Street
___________________________________
City
State
ZIP
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Ord. No. 318-99.
By Councilmen Sweeney, Robinson
and
Johnson
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of reconstructing the Ridge Road Transfer Station; authorizing the Director of
Public Service to enter into contract
for the making of such improvement; authorizing the Director of
Public Service to employ professional services necessary to perform
architectural, engineering and other
services necessary to design the
public improvement; authorizing the
purchase by requirement contract of
equipment, furniture, communication
and security systems, and other incidentals necessary for this improvement; and authorizing said director
to apply for and accept grants from
various entities necessary for this
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of reconstructing the Ridge
Road Transfer Station including
paving, grading, drainage, curbing,
sidewalks, lighting, streetscaping,
traffic signals, and other necessary
appurtenances (the “Improvement”),
for the Department of Public Service, by contract duly let to the lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding for a gross price for
the Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to enter into contract
for the making of the Improvement

with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the Improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
the Improvement may be treated as
a separate improvement, and each,
or any combination, of such trades
or components may be the subject of
a separate contract upon a unit
basis. Upon request of said director
the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule of unit prices, including profit and overhead, for all
items constituting units of said
improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to employ by contract
one or more professional architects,
engineers, one or more firms of
architects and engineers, and other
consultants necessary for the purpose of supplementing the regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to implement the
Improvement.
The selection of said consultant or
consultants for such services shall
be made by the Board of Control
upon the nomination of the Director
of Public Service from a list of qualified consultants available for such
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Service for
the purpose of compiling such a list.
The compensation to be paid for
such services shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, approved by
the Director of Public Service, and
certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and
the Codified
Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of
equipment, furniture, communication
and security systems, and other incidentals necessary for the Improvement, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Department
of Public Service. Bids shall be
taken in such manner as to permit
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination
of said items as the Board of Control shall determine. Alternate bids
for a period less than a year may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies until provision is made for
the requirements for the entire year.
The cost of said contract shall be
charged against the proper appropriation account and the Director of
Finance shall certify thereon the
amount of the initial purchase thereunder,
which
purchase,
together
with all subsequent purchases, shall
be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
pursuant to a requisition against
such contract duly certified by the
Director of Finance. (RL 23253)
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept grants from
various entities for the purpose of
reconstructing
the
Ridge
Road
Transfer Station. The Director is
further authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds accepted
pursuant to this ordinance and, upon

acceptance of the funds by the
Director, they shall be appropriated
for the purposes set forth in this
ordinance.
Section 6. That the costs of the
Improvement and professional services herein contemplated shall not
exceed an estimated amount of $9.4
million dollars and shall be paid
from Fund No. 20 SF 320, 20 SF 331,
20 SF 290, 20 SF 340, and 20 SF 295,
Request No. 23253, and from any
funds or subfunds to which are credited any grants received for this project.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Ord. No. 320-99.
By Councilmen Jones and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to apply for
and accept a grant from the Ohio
Department of Education for the
1999 Summer Food Program; authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of breakfasts, lunches and
snacks for said Program and for
food,
food
products,
beverages,
condiments
and
paper
products
needed for a food service operation
to be served at Camp George L.
Forbes as part of said Program, and
for
the
Division
of
Recreation,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties; and authorizing said
Director to contract with various
non-profit
organizations
for
the
implementation of said Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to apply for and
accept a grant in the amount of
$250,000.00, from the Ohio Department of Education, to conduct the
1999 Summer Food Program for the
purposes set forth in the application
and according thereto; that the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties is hereby authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under said grant, and that
said funds be and they hereby are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the application for said
grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 320-99-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized and directed to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the

requirements for the period of three
months (June, July and August,
1999) for the breakfast, lunch and
snack program to be served at nineteen City recreation centers and various non-profit agencies and such
other agencies or recreation facilities as determined by the Director,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon
a unit basis for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties.
Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine.
Section 4. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
21113)
Section 5. That provided the agencies meet the eligibility requirements of the Ohio Department of
Education,
the
Director
of
the
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties is hereby authorized
to make written contracts with the
following agencies and such additional agencies as determined by
said Director for implementation of
the 1999 Summer Food Program:

erties. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine.
Section 9. The cost of said contract
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation account and the Director of Finance shall certify thereon
the amount of the initial purchase
thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
pursuant to a requisition against
such contract duly certified by the
Director of Finance. (RL 21112)
Section 10. That, notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 181.24 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, bidders for the contracts authorized by
Section 3 and 8 of this ordinance
shall be required to submit a bid
bond in the amount of five percent
of the amount of the bid, as required
by United States Treasury Circular
570.
Section 11. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Emile deSauze
Community Faith Non-Denominational
Greater Love Baptist Church
Our Lady of Mt. Carmel
Salvation Army
Second Calvary
St. Paul AME
Broken Pieces Fellowship Church
Christian Family Outreach
Second New Hope Christian Academy

Ord. No. 321-99.
By Councilmen Jones and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
contract with Parkworks, formerly
Clean-Land,
Ohio,
to
conduct
a
vacant lot maintenance program for
the Division of Park Maintenance
and
Properties,
Department
of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
for a period of one year, with a one
year option to renew.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to any ordinance of the City to the contrary,
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties is hereby authorized
to enter into a contract with ParkWorks, formerly Clean-Land, Ohio,
to conduct a vacant lot maintenance program with City residents
on the basis of its proposal dated
February 23, 1999, payable from
Fund No. 01-70-12-0380, Request No.
22463, for the Division of Park
Maintenance
and
Properties,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and
Properties,
Department
of
Park, Recreation and Properties,
for a period of one year, with one
(1) option exercisable by the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties, to renew for an additional
one-year term, and cancellable upon
thirty days written notice by said
director, under the same terms and
conditions with the compensation to

Section 6. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
shall provide a list of sites where
the 1999 Summer Food Program will
be implemented within thirty (30)
days of the effective date of passage of this ordinance.
Section 7. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited the proceeds of
the grant accepted pursuant to Section 1 of this ordinance, Request No.
21113.
Section 8. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized and directed to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of various natural foods, food products,
beverages, condiments and paper
products as set forth in detail on file
in the Office of the Division of Purchases and Supplies and attached to
Request No. 21112, to be served as
part of the meal program at Camp
George L. Forbes, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and Prop-

be fixed by the Board of Control.
The cost of the initial 1-year term
of the contract authorized by this
ordinance shall not exceed two
hundred and twenty-seven thousand
dollars ($227,000.00).
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Ord. No. 322-99.
By Councilmen Jones and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of various pool chemicals,
for
the
Division
of
Recreation,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the
period of one year for the necessary
items of various pool chemicals in
an amount not to exceed $50,000, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties. Bids shall be
taken in such manner as to permit
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
24674)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 325-99.
By Councilmen Cintron, Jackson,
Robinson and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as
part of the Land Reutilization Program and bounded by Lorain Avenue on the North, I-90 on the South,
West 44th Street on the West and
Fulton Road on the East to Bailey
Orchard
Development
Limited,
LLC.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 007-01-058 as
more fully described in Section 2
below, to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 007-01-058
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
84 and part of Sublot No. 83 in the
Mueller and Meyer’s Peach Orchard
Subdivision of part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 52, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 7 of Cuyahoga
County
Records,
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
West 42nd Street (formerly Orchard
Street) at the Northeasterly corner
of land conveyed to Irme and
Emilin Markovics by deed dated
July 31, 1913 and recorded in Volume 1420, Page 412 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Northerly
along the said Easterly line of West
42 Street, 46.17 feet to its point of
intersection with the Southeasterly
line of Lorain Court, S.W.; thence
Southwesterly along the said Southeasterly line of Lorain Court, S.W.
124.52 feet to a point of intersection
with the Easterly line of a 12 foot
alley (which is also the Westerly
line of said Sublot No. 83); thence
Southerly along said Westerly line
of said Sublot No. 83, 23.33 feet to
the Southwesterly corner thereof;
thence Easterly along the Southerly line of said Sublot No. 83, 27 feet
to the Southwesterly corner of land
conveyed
to
Irme
and
Emilin
Markovics
as
aforesaid;
thence
Northerly along the Westerly line of
land so conveyed to Irme and
Emilin Markovics 19 feet; thence

Northeasterly along the Northwesterly line of land so conveyed to
Irme and Emilin Markovics 22.59
feet; thence Easterly along the
Northerly line of land conveyed to
Irme and and Emilin Markovics as
aforesaid, 66 feet to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 007-01-059 as
more fully described in Section 4
below, to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 3 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 007-01-059
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 83 in the Peach Orchard
Subdivision of part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 52 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 7 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line
of West 42nd (formerly Orchard
Street), at a point 0.5 feet Southerly from the Northeasterly corner of
said Sublot No. 83; thence Southerly along said Westerly line of
West 42nd Street, 29.50 feet to the
Southeasterly
corner
of
said
Sublot; thence Westerly along the
Southerly line of said Sublot, 86
feet; thence Northerly parallel with
the said Westerly line of West
42nd Street, 19 feet; thence Northeasterly 22.59 feet to a point 66
feet Westerly from the place of
beginning; thence Easterly 66 feet
to the place of beginning, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent
Parcel
No.
007-01-068
(Southerly
half)
as
more
fully
described in Section 6 below, to Bailey Orchard Development Limited,
LLC.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 5 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 007-01-068 (Southerly half)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly one-half of Sublot No. 72
in
Mueller
and
Myers
Peach
Orchard Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 52,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 3 of Maps, Page 7 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 15
feet front on the Westerly side of
West 42nd Street, (60 feet wide),
and extending back between parallel lines, 113 feet deep, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.

Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 007-01-069 as
more fully described in Section 8
below, to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 7 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 007-01-069
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
No. 71 in Mueller and Meyers Peach
Orchard Subdivision of part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot
No. 52, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 7
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
forming a parcel of land 30 feet
front on the Westerly side of West
42nd Street and extending back
between parallel lines 113 feet as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel Nos. 007-01-070 as
more fully described in Section 10
below, to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 9 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 007-01-070
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
70 in Mueller and Meyer’s Peach
Orchard Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 52
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 2 of Maps, Page 55 and reallotted in Volume 3 of Maps, Page
7 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 30 feet front on the Westerly
side of West 42nd Street and extending back of equal width 113 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 007-02-019 as
more fully described in Section 12
below, to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 11 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 007-02-019
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 53 in Bennett Allotment
of a part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lots Nos. 52 and 53 as
recorded in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
9
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and bounded and described
as follows:

Beginning at a point in the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 53
distant 84.50 feet Easterly therein
from
the
Northwesterly
corner
thereof; thence Southerly 30.04 feet
parallel with the Easterly line of
West 41st Place, 14.00 feet wide, to
a point in the Southerly line of said
Sublot No.
53;
thence
Easterly,
along said Southerly line of Sublot
No. 53, to the Southeasterly corner
thereof being a point in the Westerly line of West 41st Street 60.00
feet wide; thence Northerly 30.04
feet along said Westerly line of
West 41st Street, to the Northeasterly corner of said Sublot No. 53;
thence Westerly 90.71 feet along
said Northerly line of Sublot No. 53
to the place of beginning according
to a survey by Robert H. Krause,
Registered Ohio Surveyor No. 2885,
May 27, 1983, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 007-06-016 as
more fully described in Section 14
below, to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 13 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 007-06-016
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly 1/2 of Sublot No. 19 in Sarah A.
Tyler’s Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 52
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 2 of Maps, Page 52 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 30
feet front on the Easterly side of
West 41st Street, and extending
back of equal width 112.5 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 15. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 007-06-019 as
more fully described in Section 16
below, to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC.
Section 16. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 15 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 007-06-019
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly 130 feet of Sublot No. 22 in
Sarah A. Tyler’s Allotment of part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
52, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 2 of Maps, Page 52 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 30
feet front on the Easterly side of
West 41st Street (formerly Burton
Street) and extending back of equal
width 130 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 17. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the

Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 007-06-020 as
more fully described in Section 18
below, to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC.
Section 18. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 17 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 007-06-020
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Westerly 95 feet of Sublot No. 23 in
J.H. Sargent Guardian’s Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 52, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 2 of
Maps, Page 52 of Cuyahoga County Records, and 30 feet front on the
Easterly side of West 41st Street
(formerly
Buton
Street)
and
extending back of equal width 95
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to
all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 19. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 007-06-021 as
more fully described in Section 20
below, to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC.
Section 20. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 19 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 007-06-021
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly 82 feet of Sublot No. 24 in John
H. Sergent Guardian of Sarah A.
Tyler’s Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 52,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 2 of Maps, Page 52 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 36
feet front on the Easterly side of
West 41st Street and extending
back of equal width 82 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 21. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 007-06-022 as
more fully described in Section 22
below, to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC.
Section 22. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 21 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 007-06-022
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 24 in Sarah A. Tyler’s
Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 52 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 2 of
Maps, Page 52 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning at a point in the
Southerly line of Brough Court,
S.W., 14 feet wide, distant 55.50 feet
Westerly therein from the Northeasterly corner of said Sublot No.
24; thence Southerly 38.13 feet at
right angles with said Southerly

line of Brough Court, S.W., to a
point in the Southerly line of said
Sublot No. 24; thence Westerly 87.50
feet along said Southerly line of
Sublot No. 24 to a point; thence
Northerly 37.05 parallel with the
Easterly line of said Sublot No. 24
to a point in said Southerly line of
Brough Court, S.W., thence Easterly 87.50 feet along said Southerly
line of Brough Court, S.W., to the
place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to restrictions and easement contained in deed recorded in
Volume 7415, Page 441, Cuyahoga
County Records.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 23. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 007-06-023 as
more fully described in Section 24
below, to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC.
Section 24. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 23 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 007-06-023
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 24 in Sarah A. Tyler’s
Allotment of a part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 52, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 2 of Maps, Page 52 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the
Southerly line of Brough Court,
S.W., 14 feet wide, distant 55.50 feet
Westerly therein from the Northeasterly corner of said Sublot No.
24, thence Southerly 38.13 feet at
right angles with said Southerly
line of said of Brough Court, S.W.,
to a point in the Southerly line of
said Sublot No. 24, thence Easterly
55.50 feet along said Southerly line
of Sublot No. 24, to the Southeasterly corner thereof; thence Northerly 38.81 feet along said Easterly
line of said Sublot No. 24 to the
Northeasterly corner thereof, being
also its point of intersection with
said
Southerly
line
of
Brough
Court, S.W.; thence Westerly 55.50
feet along said Southerly line of
Brough Court, S.W. to the place of
beginning,
according
to
survey
made by the Robert H. Kause Surveying Company, dated September
26, 1951.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 25. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 007-06-026 as
more fully described in Section 26
below, to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC.
Section 26. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 25 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 007-06-026
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly part of Sublot No. 20 in Levi F.
Jackson’s Allotment of part of Orig-

inal Brooklyn Township Lot No. 53,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 2 of Maps, Page 46 of Cuyahoga County Records, bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the Easterly line of West 41st Street at its
intersection with the Northerly line
of said Sublot; thence Easterly
along said Northerly line about 149
feet 4 inches to a point, 90 feet
Westerly from the Westerly line of
West 40th Street, said point being
the Northwest corner of land conveyed by Edward Myers and wife to
John Ruebensaal, by deed recorded
in Volume 214, Page 391 of Cuyahoga
County
Records;
thence
Southerly along the Westerly line of
land so conveyed 30 feet to the
Southerly line of said Sublot; thence
Westerly along said Southerly line,
about 148 feet 8 inches to the Easterly line of West 41st Street; thence
Northerly along said Easterly line,
30 feet to the place of beginning, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 27. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 007-06-027 as
more fully described in Section 28
below, to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC.
Section 28. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 27 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 007-06-027
Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and
State of Ohio, and known as being
the Westerly 92 feet of Sublot No.
21 in Levi F. Jackson’s Allotment
of
part
of
Original
Brooklyn
Township Lots Nos. 52 and 53, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 2 of Maps, Page 46 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 30
feet front on the Easterly side of
West 41st Street, 60 feet wide
(formerly Burton Street), (60 feet
wide),
and
extending
back
between parallel lines 92 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
TOGETHER WITH and SUBJECT
TO all of the Rights of Way, Easements, Restrictions, Covenants and
Conditions created for the benefit of
or imposed upon the about described
premises in the Deed from Frank
Mlazovsky and Wife, to John W.
and Jeanette L. Herbster, dated
November 1, 1948 and recorded in
Volume 6648, Page 613 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Section 29. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 007-06-029 as
more fully described in Section 30
below, to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC.
Section 30. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 29 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 007-06-029
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of

Ohio, and known as being the Westerly 110 feet of Sublot No. 23 in Levi
F. Jackson’s Allotment of part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lots
No. 52 and 53, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 2 of Maps,
Page
46
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and forming a parcel of
land 30 feet front on the Easterly
side of West 41st Street, and extending back between parallel lines 110
feet as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 31. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 007-06-045 as
more fully described in Section 32
below, to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC.
Section 32. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 31 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 007-06-045
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 16 in Levi F. Jackson Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lots Nos. 52 and 53,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 2 of Maps, Page 46 of Cuyahoga County Map Records, and further bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a point where the
Southerly line of said Sublot No. 16
intersects the Westerly line of West
40th Street, (formerly Frease Avenue).
Thence Northerly along the Westerly line of West 40th Street to the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 16
about 30 feet.
Thence
Westerly
along
the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 16
about 100.00 feet to the Easterly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to
Leonard Schlather, by deed recorded
in Volume 705, Page 86.
Thence Southerly 30 feet to the
Southerly line of said Sublot No. 16.
Thence
Easterly
along
the
Southerly line of said Sublot No. 16,
about 100 feet to the place of beginning, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 33. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 007-06-047 as
more fully described in Section 34
below, to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC.
Section 34. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 33 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 007-06-047
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly 130 feet of Sublot No. 23 in J.H.
Sargent Guardian’s Subdivision of
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lot No. 52, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 2 of Maps, Page
52 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 30 feet front on the Westerly

side of West 40th Place, and extending back of equal width 130 feet as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 35. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 007-06-048 as
more fully described in Section 36
below, to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC.
Section 36. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 35 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 007-06-048
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly part of Sublot No. 22 in Allotment
of
John
H.
Sargent
as
Guardian of Sarah A. Tyler, of part
of Original Brooklyn Township Lot
No. 52, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 2 of Maps, Page 52
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 30 feet front on the Westerly
side of West 40th Place and extending back of equal width 95 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 37. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 007-06-061 as
more fully described in Section 38
below, to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC.
Section 38. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 37 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 007-06-061
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 2 in Jonah P. Hill’s Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 53, as shown by
the recorded plat of said Allotment
in Volume 8 of Maps, Page 16 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
West 40th Street (formerly Freas
Avenue) at the Southwesterly corner
of said Sublot No. 2; thence Northerly 50 feet along the said Easterly
line of West 40th Street to the Northwesterly corner of said Sublot No. 2;
thence Easterly 73 feet along the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 2
to a point; thence Southerly about 50
04/100 feet parallel with the side
Easterly line of West 40th Street to
a point in the Southerly line of said
Sublot No. 2, distant Easterly 73 feet
from the Southwesterly corner thereof; thence Westerly 73 feet along the
Southerly line of said Sublot No. 2.
to
the
place
of
beginning,
as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 39. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Sup-

plies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 007-07-013 as
more fully described in Section 40
below, to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC.
Section 40. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 39 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 007-07-013
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly 60 feet of Sublot No. 131 in Sargent and Dixon’s Re-Subdivision of
Sublots Nos. 313 and 324, in I.N.C.I.
in Barber and Lord’s Allotment of
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lots Nos. 51, 52, 69 and 70 as shown
by the recorded plat in said Re-Subdivision in Volume 2 of Maps, Page
43 of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 30 feet front on the Easterly
side of West 38th Street, and extending back between parallel lines 60
feet as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 41. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel Nos. 007-07-015,
007-06-017 and 007-06-050 as more
fully described in Section 42 below,
to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC.
Section 42. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 41 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 007-07-015
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 30 feet of Sublot No. 133
in Sargent and Dixon’s Subdivision
of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 52, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 2 of Maps,
Page
43
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 30 feet front on
the Easterly side of West 38th Street
(formerly Mechanic Street) 105 feet
deep on the Northerly line, about
105.3 feet deep on the Southerly line,
and 30 feet wide in the rear, along
the Westerly line of a 10 feet alley,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
P.P. No. 007-06-017
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly 112 feet 6 inches of Sublot No.
20 in John H. Sargent Guardian of
Sarah A. Tyler’s Allotment of part
of Original Brooklyn Township Lot
No. 52 as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 2 of Maps, Page 52 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
being 30 feet front on the Easterly
side of West 41st Street (formerly
Burton Street) and extending back
of equal width 112 feet 6 inches as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
P.P. No. 007-06-050
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly 112.50 feet of Sublot No. 20 in
Sarah A. Tyler’s Allotment of part
of Original Brooklyn Township Lot

No. 52 as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 2 of Maps, Page 52 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
being 30 feet front on the Westerly
side of West 40th Place and extending back of equal width 112.50 feet,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 43. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 44. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 45. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 46. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Ord. No. 360-99.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of various data entry services to convert 1997 and 1998 wage
and tax statements from paper documents
and
magnetic
tape
to
machine readable magnetic tapes,
for the Division of Taxation, Department of Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of of
keying and conversion of 1997 and
1998 wage and tax statements from
paper documents and magnetic tape
to machine readable magnetic tapes
per CCA specifications, including
furnishing
media,
transportation
and security in the approximate
amount as purchased during the

preceding year, to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies upon a unit basis for the
Division of Taxation, Department
of Finance. Bids shall be taken in
such manner as to permit an award
to be made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination
of said items as the Board of Control shall determine. Alternate bids
for a period less than a year may
be taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases
and
Supplies until provision is made for
the requirements for the entire
year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
21212)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Ord. No. 386-99.
By Councilmen Lewis, Patmon,
Britt, Jackson and Johnson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic
Development to expend Economic
Development Initiative Grant and
Title 7 Grant funds for administration of the Empowerment Zone
Program, as amended; and to enter
into all contracts and related documents with Hough Area Partners
in Progress, Glenville Development
Corporation, Fairfax Renaissance
Development Corporation, and MidTown
Cleveland,
or
their
designees, for implementation of
the Empowerment Zone Program,
as amended.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into and execute
all contracts and all necessary documents with Hough Area Partners
in Progress, Glenville Development
Corporation,
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corporation, and MidTown Cleveland, or their designees,
for the purpose of implementing the
Empowerment Zone Program, as
amended, and in accordance with
File No. 386-99-A.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized
to
expend
Economic
Development Initiative Grant and
Title 7 Grant funds for administration of the Program.

Section 3. That the aggregate
costs of contracts and expenditures
authorized by this ordinance shall
not exceed Three Million Two Hundred
Fifty
Thousand
Dollars
($3,250,000.00), and shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 18 SF 005, 18 SF
006 and 18 SF 008, Request No.
23769.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 5, 1999.
Ord. No. 410-99.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Law to apply
for and accept a grant from the
State of Ohio Department of Education for the 1999 Team Approach
to Violence Against Women Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
amount of $306,064, from the State of
Ohio Department of Education, to
conduct the 1999 Team Approach to
Violence Against Women Program,
for the purposes set forth in the
application and according thereto;
that the Director of Law is hereby
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the application for
said grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 410-99-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Ord. No. 424-99.
By Councilmen Jackson and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 2 and 3 of Ordinance Nos.
938-97, 939-97, 1076-97 and 1181-97,
passed June 16, 1997, relating to economic development assistance contracts with various entities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 and 3 of
Ordinance No. 938-97, passed June 16,
1997, are hereby amended to read,
respectively, as follows:
Section 2. That the terms of said
loan and grant shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Executive Summary contained
in File No. 938-97-B.
Section 3. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed Two Million
Dollars
($2,000,000.00),
and
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 18 SF
001 and 18 SF 003, Request No.
22296.
Section 2. That existing Section 2
and 3 of Ordinance No. 938-97,
passed June 16, 1997, are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That Section 2 and 3 of
Ordinance No. 939-97, passed June 16,
1997, are hereby amended to read,
respectively, as follows:
Section 2. That the terms of said
loan and grant shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Executive Summary contained
in File No. 939-97-B.
Section 3. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed Two Million
Dollars
($2,000,000.00),
and
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 18 SF
001 and 18 SF 003, Request No.
22297.
Section 4. That existing Section 2
and 3 of Ordinance No. 939-97,
passed June 16, 1997, are hereby
repealed.
Section 5. That Section 2 and 3 of
Ordinance No. 1076-97, passed June
16, 1997, are hereby amended to
read, respectively, as follows:
Section 2. That the terms of said
loan and grant shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Executive Summary contained
in File No. 1076-97-B.
Section 3. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed Two Million
Dollars
($2,000,000.00),
and
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 18 SF
001 and 18 SF 003, Request No.
22300.
Section 6. That existing Section 2
and 3 of Ordinance No. 1076-97,
passed June 16, 1997, are hereby
repealed.
Section 7. That Section 2 and 3 of
Ordinance No. 1181-97, passed June
16, 1997, are hereby amended to
read, respectively, as follows:
Section 2. That the terms of said
loan and grant shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Executive Summary contained
in File No. 1181-97-B.
Section 3. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed One Million Two Hundred Thousand Dollars
($1,200,000.00), and shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 18 SF 001 and 18 SF
003, Request No. 22301.
Section 8. That existing Section 2
and 3 of Ordinance No. 1181-97,
passed June 16, 1997, are hereby
repealed.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 520-99.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance establishing salary and wage schedules for various classifications, effective as of April
1, 1999, and repealing existing Ordinance No. 436-97, passed April 14, 1997, as amended.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this ordinance shall be known as the “General Salary Ordinance.” Further, that except as otherwise herein provided, the schedules of compensation set forth in Sections 2 to 49, inclusive, hereof shall be
effective as of April 1, 1999.
Section 2. Secretary to the Mayor, Directors of Departments, Planning Director, Executive Director Community
Relations Board, four Executive Assistants to the Mayor.
(a) That the salary of the Secretary to the Mayor shall be fixed by the Mayor at not less than $49,078.05 and
not more than $144,754.05 per annum.
(b) That the salary of the the Directors of Law, Finance, Public Utilities, Port Control, Economic Development,
Public Safety, Parks, Recreation and Properties, Public Service, Public Health, Personnel and Human Resources,
Community Development, Aging, the Planning Director, and the Executive Director of the Community Relations
Board and four (4) Executive Assistants to the Mayor shall be fixed by the Mayor at not less than $49,078.05 and
not more than $139,534.46 per annum.
Section 3. Clerk of Council.
That the salary of the Clerk of Council shall be fixed at not less than $41,416.04 and not more than $90,416.82
per annum.
Section 4. Employees of Council — Salary.
That the Clerk of Council, with the approval of the President of Council, shall fix the salary of the employees
of Council within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
11a.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.

Administrative Assistant..........................................................
Archivist.........................................................................................
Chief of Consumer Affairs......................................................
Chief Deputy Clerk — Administration...............................
Chief Deputy Clerk — Finance/Operations.....................
Chief Legislative Secretary....................................................
Clerk’s Deputy Assistant.........................................................
Clerk’s Assistant.........................................................................
Councilmanic Assistants (Part-Time).................................
Council Receptionist..................................................................
Deputy Clerk................................................................................
Director of Communications...................................................
First Assistant Clerk.................................................................
Fiscal Officer................................................................................
Fiscal Secretary...........................................................................
Information Systems Coordinator.........................................
Information Systems Manager...............................................
Legislative Assistants...............................................................
Legislative Assistant/Administrative Secretary.............
Legislative Secretary.................................................................
Office Administrator — Staff Director...............................
Research Assistant.....................................................................
Research Director.......................................................................
Sergeant-at-Arms..........................................................................

Minimum

Maximum

$17,593.45
15,525.00
18,209.22
18,209.22
18,209.22
18,209.22
18,209.22
$15.16 per hour
$5.97 per hour
15,525.00
17,593.45
20,812.05
20,813.26
$25.85 per hour
15,525.00
18,208.76
18,208.76
15,525.00
15,525.00
15,525.00
18,209.22
18,208.76
18,208.76
11,086.92

$56,548.62
56,548.62
62,203.48
67,858.35
67,858.35
56,548.62
56,548.62
$17.75 per hour
$12.18 per hour
33,929.17
56,548.62
62,203.48
56,548.62
$41.81 per hour
53,613.73
67,858.35
61,748.82
45,238.90
53,613.73
45,238.90
67,858.35
67,858.35
67,858.35
31,107.01

Section 5. Secretary of Civil Service Commission, Secretaries to Director, and Executive Assistants to the Mayor.
That the salary of the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission, the salary of the Secretary to each Director
of a Department, and the salaries of four Executive Assistants to the Mayor shall be fixed by the Mayor in accordance with the following schedule:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Four Executive Assistants to the Mayor..........................
Special Assistant to the Mayor.............................................
Secretary to Directors of Departments..............................
Secretary of the Civil Service Commission......................

Minimum
$35,410.47
20,410.00
36,590.39
25,011.85

Maximum
$117,482.20
74,951.45
99,248.38
70,000.00

Section 6. Department of Law.
That the Director of Law shall fix the salary of each member of his staff of lawyers in accordance with the
following schedule:
CIVIL BRANCH
1.
Chief Counsel...............................................................................
2.
Chief Assistant Director of Law..........................................
3.
Assistant Director of Law I...................................................

Minimum
$36,750.00
31,500.00
26,250.00

Maximum
$109,744.16
85,247.95
61,602.20

4.
5.
6.

Assistant Director of Law I(s).............................................
Assistant Director of Law II.................................................
Assistant Director of Law II(s)...........................................

26,250.00
31,500.00
31,500.00

66,811.50
69,534.13
75,823.47

CRIMINAL BRANCH
1.
Chief Assistant Prosecutor......................................................
2.
First Assistant Prosecutor......................................................
3.
Assistant Prosecutor..................................................................

36,750.00
31,500.00
23,100.00

97,964.95
77,137.92
61,230.70

Section 7. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.

Custodial Worker........................................................................
Window Washer..........................................................................
Bridge Oiler..................................................................................

Minimum
$ 7.83 per hour
$11.76 per hour
$ 8.41 per hour

Maximum
$11.80 per hour
$16.01 per hour
$14.24 per hour

Section 8. That salaries in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance
with the schedule appearing after each classification:
Minimum
Maximum
1.
Accountant I.................................................................................
$ 6.36 per hour
$15.64 per hour
2.
Accountant II...............................................................................
$ 7.06 per hour
$17.16 per hour
3.
Accountant III..............................................................................
$ 7.96 per hour
$19.02 per hour
4.
Accountant Clerk I.....................................................................
$ 5.15 per hour
$12.68 per hour
5.
Accountant Clerk II...................................................................
$ 5.46 per hour
$13.69 per hour
6.
Activities Therapist...................................................................
$ 9.15 per hour
$12.05 per hour
7.
AIDS Support Services Coordinator ...................................
$10.49 per hour
$13.48 per hour
8.
Air Pollution Control Engineer I .......................................
$ 8.43 per hour
$20.12 per hour
9.
Air Pollution Control Engineer II .....................................
$ 8.96 per hour
$21.20 per hour
10.
Air Pollution Control Engineer III ...................................
$ 9.50 per hour
$22.34 per hour
11.
Air Pollution Engineer ...........................................................
$12.04 per hour
$15.70 per hour
12.
Air Pollution Inspector I.........................................................
$10.99 per hour
$16.18 per hour
13.
Air Pollution Inspector II .....................................................
$ 7.76 per hour
$18.05 per hour
14.
Air Pollution Technician I ....................................................
$ 7.12 per hour
$17.16 per hour
15.
Air Pollution Technician II ..................................................
$ 7.53 per hour
$18.05 per hour
16.
Air Pollution Technician III ................................................
$ 8.43 per hour
$20.12 per hour
17.
Airport Information Representative ..................................
$ 9.40 per hour
$13.14 per hour
18.
Airport Operations Agent I ...................................................
$13.27 per hour
$16.25 per hour
19.
Airport Operations Agent II .................................................
$16.67 per hour
$19.13 per hour
20.
Airport Safety Man ..................................................................
$27,695.13
$34,591.42
21.
Architect .......................................................................................
$ 9.73 per hour
$23.66 per hour
22.
Assistant Buyer .........................................................................
$ 6.71 per hour
$16.42 per hour
23.
Assistant City Planner ...........................................................
$ 7.12 per hour
$17.16 per hour
24.
Assistant Civil Engineer ........................................................
$ 7.12 per hour
$17.16 per hour
25.
Assistant Electrical Engineer ..............................................
$ 7.12 per hour
$17.16 per hour
26.
Assistant Mechanical Engineer ...........................................
$ 7.12 per hour
$17.16 per hour
27.
Assistant Plan Examiner .......................................................
$12.54 per hour
$18.05 per hour
28.
Associate Programmer ............................................................
$ 7.55 per hour
$18.39 per hour
29.
Bacteriologist ..............................................................................
$ 7.96 per hour
$19.02 per hour
30.
Bill Collector ...............................................................................
$ 9.40 per hour
$13.14 per hour
31.
Building Inspector ....................................................................
$12.98 per hour
$17.45 per hour
32.
Camera Room Operator ..........................................................
$ 6.04 per hour
$14.94 per hour
33.
Caseworker I ..............................................................................
$ 5.73 per hour
$14.27 per hour
34.
Caseworker II ............................................................................
$ 6.36 per hour
$15.64 per hour
35.
Cashier/Starter ...........................................................................
$ 6.36 per hour
$15.64 per hour
36.
Chemist .........................................................................................
$ 8.90 per hour
$20.50 per hour
37.
Chief Miscellaneous Investigator ........................................
$ 7.53 per hour
$18.05 per hour
38.
Citizens Information Representative .................................
$ 6.04 per hour
$14.94 per hour
39.
Civil Engineer ............................................................................
$ 9.50 per hour
$23.66 per hour
40.
Claims Examiner .......................................................................
$ 7.53 per hour
$18.05 per hour
41.
Clerk Typist ................................................................................
$ 7.62 per hour
$ 9.80 per hour
42.
Clinical Laboratory Assistant ..............................................
$ 6.36 per hour
$14.94 per hour
43.
Clinical Laboratory Technician I .......................................
$ 7.12 per hour
$17.16 per hour
44.
Clinical Laboratory Technician II .....................................
$ 7.37 per hour
$18.39 per hour
45.
Cocaine Treatment Counselor I ..........................................
$ 8.56 per hour
$14.20 per hour
46.
Cocaine Intake Specialist ......................................................
$ 9.95 per hour
$12.78 per hour
47.
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector I ....................................................
$14.08 per hour
$19.03 per hour
48.
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector II ..................................................
$14.89 per hour
$20.12 per hour
49.
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector III .................................................
$15.70 per hour
$21.20 per hour
50.
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Heating I ..................................
$14.08 per hour
$19.03 per hour
51.
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Heating II .................................
$14.89 per hour
$20.12 per hour
52.
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Heating III ...............................
$15.70 per hour
$21.20 per hour

53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.

Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Refrigeration I ........................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Refrigeration II ......................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Refrigeration III ....................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Trainee .......................................
Community Development Planner ......................................
Community Health Aide .........................................................
Community Relations Representative I ...........................
Community Relations Representative II .........................
Community Relations Representative III ........................
Composing Equipment Operator ..........................................
Computer Monitor Assistant .................................................
Computer Operator ....................................................................
Consumer Protection Specialist ...........................................
Cook ...............................................................................................
Copy Center Operator ..............................................................
Cost Construction Estimator .................................................
Customer Service Representative .......................................
Data Control Clerk ...................................................................
Data Conversion Operator .....................................................
Dental Assistant ........................................................................
Development Officer ................................................................
Dietician .......................................................................................
Drug and Alcohol Counselor ................................................
Electrical Engineer ..................................................................
Electronic Engineer .................................................................
Elevator Inspector ....................................................................
Environmental Compliance — Specialist I .....................
Environmental Compliance — Specialist II ...................
Environmental Compliance — Specialist III .................
Environmental Enforcement — Specialist I ...................
Environmental Enforcement — Specialist II .................
Environmental Enforcement — Specialist III ...............
Environmental Monitoring — Specialist I ......................
Environmental Monitoring — Specialist II ....................
Environmental Monitoring — Specialist III ...................
Environmental Technician ....................................................
Family Planning Clerk ...........................................................
Financial Analyst .....................................................................
Financial Counselor .................................................................
Fuel System Technician .........................................................
General Health Aide ................................................................
General Storekeeper .................................................................
Geriatric Outreach Worker ...................................................
Head Cook ...................................................................................
Head Storekeeper ......................................................................
Health Educator I ....................................................................
Health Educator II ..................................................................
Heating Inspector .....................................................................
HIV Educator .............................................................................
House Connection Inspector .................................................
Housing Inspector .....................................................................
Human Resources Contract Specialist ..............................
Human Resources On-the-Job Training Specialist .......
Human Resources Planner ....................................................
Human Resources Special Projects Coordinator ...........
Income Tax Tracer ..................................................................
Industrial Hygiene Engineer ...............................................
Industrial Nuisance Inspector ..............................................
Information Control Analyst ................................................
Inspector of Weights and Measures .................................
Instrument Repairman ............................................................
Instrumentation Technician I ..............................................
Instrumentation Technician II ............................................
Intake Specialist .......................................................................
Job Retraining Assistant .......................................................
Junior Cashier ............................................................................
Junior Chemist ...........................................................................
Junior City Planner .................................................................
Junior Civil Engineer .............................................................
Junior Clerk ................................................................................
Junior Draftsman ......................................................................
Junior Engineering Aide .......................................................
Lab Coordinator...........................................................................

$14.08 per hour

$19.03 per hour

$14.89 per hour

$20.12 per hour

$15.70 per hour

$21.20 per hour

$ 9.97
$ 9.87
$ 5.15
$ 6.04
$ 7.53
$ 9.51
$ 6.71
$ 8.43
$ 7.53
$ 5.73
$10.68
$ 5.67
$ 8.34
$ 9.41
$ 5.24
$ 9.30
$ 5.15
$ 8.96
$ 9.08
$ 9.05
$ 9.50
$ 9.54
$13.35
$14.95
$16.35
$17.90
$14.95
$16.35
$17.90
$13.33
$14.18
$15.74
$11.99
$ 7.22
$ 7.12
$ 7.94
$ 8.96
$ 5.15
$ 7.96
$ 7.12
$ 5.46
$ 7.11
$ 6.36
$ 7.12
$13.35
$ 8.17
$11.91
$13.69
$ 9.73
$10.21
$10.74
$10.21
$ 6.36
$ 9.73
$ 6.36
$ 6.81
$ 5.73
$ 8.21
$15.83
$17.66
$ 5.15
$ 7.12
$ 5.24
$ 5.46
$ 6.36
$ 6.36
$ 9.28
$ 7.92
$ 5.46
$16.82

$15.35
$22.75
$12.68
$14.94
$18.05
$22.34
$16.42
$10.85
$18.05
$14.27
$12.36
$13.69
$17.56
$13.67
$13.15
$11.91
$12.42
$21.19
$15.63
$11.63
$23.66
$24.08
$17.45
$16.49
$17.31
$22.54
$17.22
$18.08
$18.99
$17.04
$17.89
$18.79
$14.28
$10.96
$17.16
$18.05
$15.94
$12.68
$19.02
$17.16
$13.67
$17.17
$15.64
$17.16
$17.45
$ 9.98
$14.59
$15.53
$23.65
$20.11
$24.97
$20.11
$15.64
$23.65
$15.64
$16.38
$14.27
$15.63
$16.80
$18.51
$12.68
$17.16
$13.14
$13.69
$15.64
$15.64
$10.96
$13.43
$13.69
$19.24

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

126.
127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135.
136.
137.
138.
139.
140.
141.
142.
143.
144.
145.
146.
147.
148.
149.
150.
151.
152.
153.
154.
155.
156.
157.
158.
159.
160.
161.
162.
163.
164.
165.
166.
167.
168.
169.
170.
171.
172.
173.
174.
175.
176.
177.
178.
179.
180.
181.
182.
183.
184.
185.
186.
187.
188.
189.
190.
191.
192.
193.
194.
195.
196.
197.
198.
199.
200.
201.
202.

Laboratory Assistant ...............................................................
Laboratory Helper ....................................................................
Landscape Architect .................................................................
Lead Pressman ...........................................................................
Life Guard ...................................................................................
Life Guard Captain ..................................................................
Mechanical Engineer ...............................................................
Messenger .....................................................................................
Meter Reader ..............................................................................
Minority Business Consultant ..............................................
Miscellaneous Investigator ....................................................
Monitoring, Auditing and Evaluation Coordinator ......
Office Machine Operator ........................................................
Offset Duplicating Machine Operator ...............................
On The Job Training Specialist .........................................
Park and Recreation Planner ..............................................
Parking Attendant ....................................................................
Parking Meter Collector .........................................................
Parking Meter Serviceman ....................................................
Permit Processing Specialist ................................................
Pharmacist ...................................................................................
Pharmacodependent Rehabilitation Counselor I ...........
Pharmacodependent Rehabilitation Counselor II .........
Photographer ..............................................................................
Photographic Laboratory Technician ................................
Photo-Litho Operator ................................................................
Physical Director ......................................................................
Plan Examiner ...........................................................................
Play Director ..............................................................................
Police Radio Technician ........................................................
Pressman ......................................................................................
Preventive Health Counselor ................................................
Preventive Health Educator .................................................
Principal Cashier ......................................................................
Principal Clerk ..........................................................................
Print Shop Helper .....................................................................
Private Secretary ......................................................................
Program Analyst .......................................................................
Programmer .................................................................................
Programmer Analyst ................................................................
Property Clerk ...........................................................................
Psychiatric Social Worker .....................................................
Psychologist I ............................................................................
Psychologist II ...........................................................................
Public Health Nursing Aide .................................................
Public Health Sanitarian I ...................................................
Public Health Sanitarian II ..................................................
Public Health Sanitarian III ................................................
Public Health Sanitarian IV ................................................
Public Information Officer ....................................................
Quality Assurance Analyst ...................................................
Quality Control Coordinator...................................................
Radio Dispatcher .......................................................................
Radio Technician ......................................................................
Receptionist .................................................................................
Records Manager ......................................................................
Recreation Aide .........................................................................
Recreation Instructor ..............................................................
Recreation Instructor I ...........................................................
Recreation Instructor II .........................................................
Recreation Instructor III .......................................................
Recreation Program Supervisor ..........................................
Redevelopment Advisor ..........................................................
Redevelopment Coordinator ..................................................
Refrigeration Inspector ..........................................................
Refugee Outreach Worker .....................................................
Registered Animal Health Technician .............................
Rehabilitation Advisor ............................................................
Sanitarian Aide ..........................................................................
Secretary .......................................................................................
Secretary to Director of Consumer Affairs ....................
Senior Assistant Architect .....................................................
Senior Assistant City Planner .............................................
Senior Assistant Civil Engineer .........................................
Senior Assistant Electrical Engineer ................................
Senior Assistant Mechanical Engineer .............................
Senior Assistant Traffic Engineer .....................................

$ 6.04
$ 5.15
$ 9.50
$ 8.93
$ 5.15
$ 7.14
$ 9.50
$ 5.15
$12.03
$11.15
$ 5.46
$13.65
$ 9.28
$ 5.46
$12.71
$ 9.51
$ 6.31
$ 6.32
$12.78
$ 7.00
$10.74
$ 6.49
$ 7.57
$ 9.08
$ 6.80
$ 5.48
$ 8.33
$ 7.96
$ 5.15
$15.36
$ 7.89
$13.59
$ 8.89
$ 7.24
$10.19
$ 9.95
$ 6.71
$16.64
$ 8.96
$ 9.73
$11.37
$12.48
$10.74
$12.88
$ 9.97
$11.99
$13.46
$14.53
$ 8.78
$ 7.38
$ 8.96
$16.82
$15.25
$15.36
$ 6.06
$ 9.84
$ 5.15
$ 5.15
$ 5.24
$ 5.46
$ 6.83
$ 6.83
$ 7.96
$ 8.38
$13.37
$ 8.40
$ 7.94
$ 6.71
$10.90
$ 6.30
$ 9.51
$ 7.96
$ 7.96
$ 7.96
$ 7.96
$ 7.96
$ 7.96

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$14.94
$11.80
$22.34
$17.40
$10.25
$10.25
$23.65
$11.80
$14.91
$26.32
$13.69
$17.42
$11.48
$13.69
$16.83
$22.34
$12.68
$12.65
$13.30
$10.61
$24.97
$12.12
$14.32
$17.16
$14.94
$13.69
$15.43
$20.42
$10.81
$16.26
$16.84
$17.46
$11.73
$18.39
$15.46
$11.59
$16.42
$23.79
$21.20
$23.65
$26.34
$17.11
$22.76
$26.84
$10.94
$14.61
$16.36
$17.07
$21.19
$18.05
$21.19
$19.24
$16.26
$16.26
$12.08
$12.67
$ 8.44
$12.68
$13.50
$14.02
$14.84
$13.79
$19.02
$21.20
$17.45
$11.79
$12.68
$16.42
$12.30
$13.69
$22.34
$19.02
$19.02
$19.02
$19.02
$19.02
$19.02

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

203.
204.
205.
206.
207.
208.
209.
210.
211.
212.
213.
214.
215.
216.
217.
218.
219.
220.
221.
222.
223.
224.
225.
226.
227.
228.
229.
230.
231.
232.
233.
234.
234a.
235.
236.
237.
238.
239.
240.
241.
242.
243.
244.
245.

Senior Bacteriologist ................................................................
Senior Cashier ............................................................................
Senior Chemist ...........................................................................
Senior Clerk ................................................................................
Senior Computer Operator .....................................................
Senior Data Conversion Operator .......................................
Senior Development Officer ..................................................
Senior Draftsman ......................................................................
Senior Engineering Draftsman and Photographer ......
Senior Information Control Analyst ..................................
Senior Laboratory Technician ..............................................
Senior Landscape Architect ..................................................
Senior Site Inspector — Demolition ..................................
Sewer Service Man ...................................................................
Site Inspector ..............................................................................
Social Worker for Homeless ................................................
Starter (Golf) .............................................................................
S.T.D. Clerk .................................................................................
Stenographer I ...........................................................................
Stenographer II ..........................................................................
Stenographer III ........................................................................
Stock Clerk ..................................................................................
Storekeeper ..................................................................................
Street Obstruction Inspector .................................................
Surveyor ........................................................................................
Tax Auditor I .............................................................................
Tax Auditor II ...........................................................................
Technical Specialist .................................................................
Technical Specifications Writer ..........................................
Telephone Operator ..................................................................
Telephone Supervisor ..............................................................
Timekeeper ..................................................................................
Traffic Engineer .......................................................................
Traffic Sign and Marking Technician .............................
Typist ............................................................................................
Urban Planning and Development Technician .............
Utility Adjuster ..........................................................................
Vector Control Assistant ........................................................
Veteran’s Counselor .................................................................
Water Hydraulic Repairman ................................................
Water Meter Repairman ........................................................
Water Pipe Repairman.............................................................
Water Serviceman .....................................................................
Water System Construction Inspector ..............................

$ 6.71
$ 6.36
$ 7.53
$ 9.65
$ 8.96
$ 5.73
$12.63
$ 9.05
$ 7.12
$ 7.38
$10.86
$ 9.73
$ 8.43
$14.06
$ 7.53
$13.82
$ 5.15
$ 7.88
$ 9.17
$10.11
$ 7.37
$ 5.46
$ 6.36
$ 6.04
$ 8.96
$ 7.12
$ 7.96
$ 7.53
$ 9.08
$ 5.24
$ 5.46
$ 5.46
$ 9.50
$12.83
$ 9.30
$ 5.73
$ 9.98
$ 8.90
$ 7.38
$14.06
$14.06
$12.73
$ 9.05
$14.70

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$16.42
$15.64
$18.05
$12.84
$21.20
$14.27
$27.81
$15.34
$17.16
$18.05
$13.96
$23.65
$20.11
$14.92
$18.05
$17.76
$10.49
$10.14
$11.51
$12.84
$14.27
$14.11
$16.07
$14.94
$21.20
$17.16
$19.02
$18.05
$19.03
$13.14
$13.69
$13.69
$22.34
$13.69
$11.91
$14.27
$12.84
$11.43
$15.54
$14.92
$14.92
$14.92
$12.73
$19.02

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

Section 9. That salaries in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance
with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.

Guard...............................................................................................
House of Correction Guard ...................................................
Institutional Guard ...................................................................

Minimum
$ 6.55 per hour
$12.18 per hour
$12.18 per hour

Maximum
$11.88 per hour
$12.63 per hour
$12.63 per hour

Section 10. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Bilingual Communication Specialist ..................................
Police Radio Dispatcher .........................................................
Police Safety Aide ....................................................................
Safety Telephone Operator ....................................................

Minimum
$20,739.17
20,741.97
17,590.83
19,273.89

Maximum
$28,212.65
30,897.95
21,992.05
23,885.43

Section 11. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.

Assistant Superintendent of Distribution ........................
Chief Meter Reader ..................................................................
Chief Radio Dispatcher — Water ......................................
Data Conversion Supervisor ..................................................
Engineer of Hydraulic Surveys ..........................................
Meter Reader Supervisor ........................................................
Sewer Construction Unit Leader .........................................
Sewer Maintenance Unit Leader .........................................
Sewer Maintenance Unit Leader Operator ......................
Supervisor of Radio Service .................................................
Unit Supervisor ..........................................................................

Minimum
$29,828.64
26,776.62
30,533.44
24,070.17
37,550.06
29,215.14
31,650.11
23,962.24
28,605.94
30,553.44
26,835.06

Maximum
$36,972.47
33,275.61
37,850.38
29,997.38
46,824.30
37,102.75
39,178.77
33,914.15
35,491.42
40,021.26
37,500.22

12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.

Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water

Hydraulic Unit Leader ..............................................
Hydraulic Supervisor .................................................
Meter Department Unit Leader .............................
Meter Department Supervisor .................................
Pipe Repair Unit Leader...........................................
Pipe Repair Supervisor .............................................

28,446.57
32,237.05
28,446.55
32,237.05
28,446.57
32,242.61

35,797.50
40,395.52
35,797.50
40,395.52
36,670.91
41,268.93

Section 12. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.

Building Stationary Engineer ..............................................
Chief Building Stationary Engineer ..................................
Chief Stationary Engineer ....................................................
First Assistant Stationary Engineer .................................
Purification Plant Operator I ..............................................
Purification Plant Operator II .............................................
Purification Plant Operator III ...........................................
Second Assistant Stationary Engineer .............................
Stationary Boiler Room Operator .......................................
Water Plant Operator I ..........................................................
Water Plant Operator II ........................................................

$10.14
$12.37
$ 9.18
$12.15
$ 9.43
$10.83
$11.36
$10.83
$12.29
$15.70
$17.73

Minimum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

$15.67
$16.75
$18.31
$16.67
$12.76
$14.53
$15.18
$15.57
$16.25
$17.16
$18.38

Maximum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

Section 13. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.

Traffic Sign and Marking Supervisor ..............................
Traffic Sign Process Operator .............................................

Minimum
$12.89 per hour
$12.89 per hour

Maximum
$19.80 per hour
$19.80 per hour

Section 14. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.

Security Officer ..........................................................................

Minimum
$ 9.78 per hour

Maximum
$15.18 per hour

Section 15. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

Airport Maintenance Man ......................................................
Concrete Mixer Driver ............................................................
Dog Warden ................................................................................
Ground Maintenance Truck Driver II ..............................
Hostler ...........................................................................................
Parking Enforcement Officer ...............................................
Street Carry-all Driver ............................................................
Street Maintenance Equipment Leader ............................
Street Equipment Maintenance Specialist .......................
Tanker Truck Driver ..............................................................
Tow Truck Operator ................................................................
Traffic Controller ......................................................................
Truck Driver ...............................................................................
Waste Collection Driver .........................................................
Waste Collection Roll-Off Driver..........................................

$11.97
$14.82
$11.04
$12.34
$ 9.80
$ 9.74
$15.55
$16.15
$15.55
$15.55
$11.80
$ 9.73
$12.50
$12.33
$15.52

Minimum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

$13.74
$17.39
$12.67
$14.54
$11.26
$11.17
$18.50
$18.54
$17.84
$18.41
$13.93
$11.17
$14.73
$14.54
$18.19

Maximum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

Section 16. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.

Machinist ......................................................................................
Machinist Unit Leader ............................................................
Machinist Helper .......................................................................

Minimum
$14.23 per hour
$13.86 per hour
$12.80 per hour

Maximum
$17.44 per hour
$19.74 per hour
$14.72 per hour

Section 17. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.

Auto Body Repair Unit Leader.............................................
Auto Body Repair Worker ....................................................
Automobile Repair Helper .....................................................
Automobile Repair Worker ...................................................
Automobile Repairman Unit Leader ..................................
Blacksmith ...................................................................................
Garage Worker ..........................................................................
Heavy Duty Mechanic .............................................................
Small Equipment Repair Worker .......................................
Tire Repair Worker .................................................................
Welder ...........................................................................................

$12.44
$10.49
$ 9.73
$11.03
$12.44
$10.71
$ 9.20
$10.71
$ 9.93
$10.23
$12.17

Minimum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

$18.03
$14.99
$13.43
$14.86
$18.03
$17.56
$12.64
$17.81
$13.43
$13.54
$17.31

Maximum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

Section 18. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.

Bridge Attendant.........................................................................
Electric Bridge Operator..........................................................

Minimum
$ 7.82 per hour
$ 9.39 per hour

Maximum
$12.53 per hour
$15.13 per hour

Section 19. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Assistant Chief Electrical Inspector .................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Electrical I ...............................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Electrical II .............................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Electrical III ...........................
Electrical Inspector ..................................................................

Minimum
$30,822.89

Maximum
$39,601.07

$14.40 per hour

$19.03 per hour

$15.20 per hour

$20.12 per hour

$16.01 per hour
$29,217.91

$21.19 per hour
$37,539.03

Section 20. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Assistant Chief Plumbing Inspector .................................
Assistant Plumbing Inspector ..............................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Plumbing I ...............................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Plumbing II .............................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Plumbing III ............................
Plumbing Inspector ..................................................................

Minimum
$30,822.89
$18,839.70

Maximum
$39,601.07
$32,506.45

$14.40 per hour

$19.03 per hour

$15.20 per hour

$20.12 per hour

$16.01 per hour
$29,217.91

$21.19 per hour
$37,539.03

Section 21. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.

Emergency Medical Dispatcher (Probationary) ...........
Emergency Medical Dispatcher ...........................................
Emergency Medical Technician ..........................................

Minimum
$ 8.50 per hour
$23,928.02
$25,445.75

Maximum
$ 8.50 per hour
$32,938.76
$35,931.55

Section 22. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Minimum
$19,049.10
19,049.10
23,146.64
34,673.49
37,776.57
28,151.33
30,653.67
35,658.35
23,647.11

Nurse II ........................................................................................
Public Health Nurse ................................................................
Public Health Nurse I .............................................................
Public Health Nurse II ...........................................................
Public Health Nurse III .........................................................
Public Health Nurse IV .........................................................
Public Health Nurse V ...........................................................
Public Health Nurse VI .........................................................
Supervising Public Health Nurse .......................................

Maximum
$39,130.14
39,130.14
38,099.16
36,795.71
40,609.81
44,317.93
48,721.43
56,313.80
42,708.61

Section 23. That the salaries and the compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.

Apprentice Cable Splicer ........................................................
Apprentice Lineman .................................................................
Cable Foreman ...........................................................................
Cable Splicer ...............................................................................
Cable Splicer I ...........................................................................
Cable Splicer II .........................................................................
Cable Splicer Helper ................................................................
Dispatcher Electric System Operator ................................
Electric Meter Industrial Installer ....................................
Electric Meter Instrument Specialist
and General Tester ..............................................................
Electric Meterman Apprentice .............................................
Electric Meter Service Foremen ..........................................
Electric Meter Service Installer I ......................................
Electric Meter Service Installer II ....................................
Electric Motor and Transformer Repairman .................
Electric Switchboard Operator Foreman .........................

$14.35
$14.46
$20.31
$16.95
$18.17
$16.64
$12.25
$17.13
$18.10

Minimum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

$19.84
$20.01
$26.09
$21.80
$23.35
$21.37
$16.63
$22.00
$23.27

$18.31
$14.13
$20.31
$16.87
$15.71
$16.87
$20.31

per
per
per
per
per
per
per

$23.53
$19.56
$26.09
$21.66
$20.19
$21.68
$26.09

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

Maximum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.

Electric Transmission and Distribution Inspector .......
Foreman Low Tension ............................................................
Gas Turbine Mechanic ............................................................
Gas Turbine Mechanic Apprentice .....................................
Junior Electric Switchboard Operator ..............................
Leader Lineman Low-Tension ..............................................
Line Foreman .............................................................................
Line Clearance Man .................................................................
Line Helper Driver ...................................................................
Lineman ........................................................................................
Lineman Leader .........................................................................
Line Switchman .........................................................................
Low Tension Lineman ............................................................
Low Tension Lineman Apprentice .....................................
Low Tension Trouble Lineman ...........................................
Police Division Trouble Lineman .......................................
Safety Signal Trouble Lineman ..........................................
Senior Electric Switchboard Operator ...............................
Senior Lineman ..........................................................................
Signal System Powerman ......................................................
Telecommunications Technician .........................................
Traffic Signal Control Technician .....................................
Transformer Repairman Foreman ......................................
Trouble Lineman .......................................................................
Underground Conduit Foreman ...........................................

$18.17
$19.95
$16.87
$14.35
$14.43
$19.35
$20.31
$14.19
$12.08
$18.17
$19.48
$19.48
$16.95
$13.95
$17.77
$18.63
$18.63
$15.91
$19.14
$18.97
$18.97
$20.09
$20.31
$19.14
$20.31

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$23.35
$25.63
$21.66
$19.84
$18.54
$24.87
$26.09
$19.29
$18.90
$23.35
$25.02
$25.02
$21.80
$19.29
$24.28
$23.94
$23.94
$20.45
$24.59
$24.38
$24.38
$25.81
$26.09
$24.59
$26.09

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

Section 24. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.

Accident and Safety Inspector .............................................
Airport Field Foreman ...........................................................
Arborist I .....................................................................................
Arborist II ...................................................................................
Arborist III ..................................................................................
Assistant Gardener ...................................................................
Assistant Manager of Parks and Urban Forestry .......
Assistant Superintendent of Waste Collection ..............
Cemetery Foreman ...................................................................
Cemeteries Maintenance Man I ...........................................
Cemeteries Maintenance Man II .........................................
Cemetery Supervisor ................................................................
Chief Engineering and Construction Inspector ............
Chief Horticulturist ..................................................................
Cold Patch and Cracksealing Foreman ...........................
Cold Patch and Crack Sealing Worker ...........................
Crematory and Mausoleum Operator .................................
District Paving Repair Foreman ........................................
Engineering and Construction Inspector .........................
Gardener .......................................................................................
General Construction Foreman ............................................
General Shop Foreman ...........................................................
Greenskeeper ..............................................................................
Ground Maintenance Crew Foreman .................................
Ground Maintenance Foreman .............................................
Ground Maintenance Man ......................................................
Horticulturist ..............................................................................
Horticulturist Maintenance Foreman ................................
Labor Foreman ..........................................................................
Lead Program Assistant ........................................................
Mechanical Handyman ............................................................
Maintenance Foreman .............................................................
Municipal Service Laborer .....................................................
Parking Coordinator ................................................................
Practical Nurse ..........................................................................
Radio Operator ...........................................................................
Real Estate Maintenance Man ............................................
Set-Up Foreman ..........................................................................
Shop Foreman .............................................................................
Sidewalk Inspector ...................................................................
Street Cleaning District Foreman ......................................
Street Maintenance Foreman ................................................
Street Maintenance General Foreman ...............................
Street Permit Supervisor ........................................................
Street Sweeper-Waste Collection .........................................
Tire Shredder ..............................................................................
Transfer Station Attendant.....................................................

$15.29
$15.18
$13.31
$15.45
$17.45
$10.42
$16.99
$17.46
$15.18
$11.90
$18.63
$17.46
$19.20
$22.95
$17.56
$13.09
$13.31
$23.87
$14.28
$11.41
$24.09
$17.46
$15.79
$12.86
$15.19
$11.90
$20.09
$15.19
$15.18
$12.93
$12.41
$14.51
$11.90
$16.05
$11.84
$13.67
$12.61
$12.68
$15.18
$13.04
$15.18
$15.18
$17.47
$11.86
$11.56
$12.50
$16.05

Minimum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

$17.29
$17.18
$15.31
$17.45
$19.45
$12.42
$18.99
$19.46
$17.19
$13.90
$20.63
$19.46
$21.20
$24.95
$19.56
$15.09
$15.31
$25.87
$16.29
$13.41
$26.09
$19.46
$17.79
$14.86
$17.19
$13.90
$22.09
$17.19
$17.18
$14.93
$14.41
$16.51
$13.90
$18.05
$13.84
$15.67
$14.61
$14.68
$17.18
$15.04
$17.18
$17.18
$19.47
$13.86
$13.56
$14.50
$18.05

Maximum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.

Waste Collection Foreman ....................................................
Waste Collection Foreman I ................................................
Waste Collection Transfer Foreman .................................
Waste Collector .........................................................................
Waste Collector — Cushman Operator .............................
Watchman ....................................................................................
Watchman Supervisor ..............................................................

$15.18
$16.69
$17.32
$11.90
$12.23
$ 9.97
$12.56

per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$17.18
$18.69
$19.32
$13.90
$14.23
$11.97
$14.56

per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

Section 25. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.

Fingerprint Examiner .............................................................

Minimum
$18,885.58

Maximum
$29,156.08

Section 26. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.

Budget Analyst ..........................................................................
Buyer .............................................................................................
Civil Service Examiner I .......................................................
Civil Service Examiner II .....................................................
Civil Service Examiner III ...................................................
Civil Service Examiner IV ....................................................
Court Stenographer ..................................................................
Docket Clerk ...............................................................................
Junior Personnel Assistant ...................................................
Law Librarian ............................................................................
Legal Secretary ..........................................................................
Office Manager ..........................................................................
Parking Enforcement Analyst .............................................
Paralegal ......................................................................................
Personnel Assistant ..................................................................
Private Secretary to Director ...............................................
Scientific Examiner ..................................................................
Senior Personnel Assistant ...................................................
Tape Librarian ...........................................................................

Minimum
$16,760.96
17,705.24
12,983.84
15,344.54
18,885.58
23,606.98
15,344.54
16,043.58
12,983.84
16,524.89
17,189.55
14,700.00
18,385.50
16,043.58
16,524.89
15,344.54
22,575.00
17,705.24
14,164.19

Maximum
$41,854.49
38,265.54
32,081.84
34,503.31
39,604.83
49,151.61
32,146.94
28,679.20
31,081.86
30,991.95
32,509.53
30,794.79
35,185.10
34,503.43
35,711.05
37,542.38
46,454.95
39,604.83
32,928.85

Section 27. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.

Administrative Officer ............................................................
Cable Protection Specialist ...................................................
Case Worker Supervisor .........................................................
Chief Air Pollution Inspector ..............................................
Chief Caseworker Supervisor ...............................................
Chief Clerk ..................................................................................
Chief Photographer ..................................................................
Chief Radio Dispatcher ..........................................................
Chief Telephone Operator ......................................................
Cocaine Treatment Supervisor...............................................
Composing Supervisor .............................................................
Consumer Protection Supervisor .........................................
Custodial Worker Supervisor ...............................................
Personnel Analyst I .................................................................
Secretary to Board of Examiner of Plumbers Board
of Review (Electrical) ........................................................
Secretary — Boxing and Wrestling Commission .........
Superintendent of Maintenance ...........................................
Superintendent of Street Cleaning .....................................
Superintendent of Waste Collection ..................................
Supervisor of Income Tax Files .........................................
Supervisor of Storeroom and Mailing ...............................

Minimum
$17,705.24
18,529.41
20,065.93
20,065.93
22,426.64
22,050.00
20,065.93
25,377.50
17,611.99
22,426.64
20,065.93
18,885.58
17,705.24
21,000.00

Maximum
$41,830.50
30,428.07
35,711.05
40,415.94
36,273.02
37,542.58
40,415.94
37,810.47
39,509.77
37,542.58
34,503.43
36,273.02
33,367.48
37,312.49

18,885.58
18,885.58
23,606.98
25,967.68
29,508.73
18,885.58
16,524.89

31,410.17
28,679.20
45,180.50
36,858.25
45,180.50
31,410.17
28,679.20

Section 28. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

Airport Maintenance Supervisor ..........................................
Airport Safety Supervisor ......................................................
Assistant Chief Building Inspector ...................................
Assistant Chief Housing Inspector ....................................
Assistant Custodian .................................................................
Assistant Superintendent of Electrical Generation .....
Bridge Inspector ........................................................................
Bureau Manager — Housing ................................................

Minimum
$21,019.66
21,019.66
17,705.24
17,705.24
16,559.28
21,019.66
13,958.10
26,797.11

Maximum
$41,830.52
40,946.44
41,829.35
40,414.83
38,264.37
44,786.47
32,928.96
64,862.82

9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.

Bureau Manager — Demolition ...........................................
Bureau Manager — Building ...............................................
Cable Production Manager ....................................................
Chief Bridge Operator .............................................................
Chief of Electric Meter Bureau ..........................................
Chief Guard .................................................................................
Chief Safety Signal System ..................................................
Chief Sidewalk Inspector .......................................................
Chief Street Permit Inspector ..............................................
Chief of Traffic Signal Unit ................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspector Supervisor ............................................................
Coordinator of Parking Enforcement ...............................
Correctional Supervisor ...........................................................
District Forester ........................................................................
Electric Bridge Operator Leader ........................................
Environmental Assistant ........................................................
Field Operations Forester ......................................................
General Superintendent Waste Collection .......................
House Sergeant ..........................................................................
Instrumentation Supervisor ...................................................
Parking Meter Foreman .........................................................
Printing Foreman .....................................................................
Supervisor of Landscape Construction .............................
Supervisor of Parking Enforcement Unit .......................
Supervisor of Markets .............................................................
Supervisor of Weights and Measures ...............................
Survey Party Chief ..................................................................
Tunnel Maintenance Foreman .............................................
Tunnel Maintenance Man ......................................................

26,797.11
26,797.11
20,410.00
16,559.28
26,274.57
15,764.74
$18.60 per hour
15,641.78
14,790.48
$18.60 per hour

64,862.82
64,862.82
73,481.81
39,603.62
55,906.32
32,747.82
$29.06 per hour
36,276.04
34,503.43
$29.06 per hour

34,464.91
18,627.62
17,543.01
31,043.38
$ 8.55 per hour
17,705.24
32,445.00
30,473.96
13,137.29
29,200.50
24,679.38
28,404.92
17,078.47
18,262.21
14,790.48
14,790.48
18,099.87
17,078.47
15,764.72

44,884.01
41,341.23
40,415.94
46,065.90
$14.33 per hour
40,415.94
47,805.98
50,347.87
28,928.93
42,030.72
32,552.82
41,130.46
36,858.25
32,108.72
35,711.05
34,503.43
44,470.78
30,155.23
27,532.64

Section 29. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.

Accountant IV..............................................................................
Airport Operations Agent III.................................................
Assistant Bureau Chief — Demolition...............................
Assistant Financial Systems Coordinator..........................
Assistant Personnel Administrator......................................
Budget and Management Analyst........................................
Chief Dog Warden......................................................................
Labor Relations Assistant.......................................................
Rehabilitation Supervisor........................................................
Superintendent of Sewer Maintenance................................
Supervisor of Architectural Construction..........................
Supervisor of Personnel Records..........................................
Supervisor of Site Development............................................
Supervisor of Vital Statistics.................................................
Systems Analyst..........................................................................
Water Plant Shift Supervisor.................................................
Water Plant Shift Supervisor — Parma Control...........
Water System Construction Inspector Supervisor..........

Minimum
$18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
$8.96 per hour
$8.96 per hour
18,627.62

Maximum
$42,557.04
44,046.54
42,557.04
42,557.04
44,046.54
44,046.54
53,712.78
42,557.04
42,557.04
42,557.04
44,046.54
42,557.04
42,557.04
44,046.54
42,557.04
$21.18 per hour
$21.18 per hour
44,046.54

Section 30. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.

Airport Maintenance Superintendent...................................
Assistant Commissioner of Recreation...............................
Assistant Contract Compliance Officer..............................
Assistant Director of Public Health Nurses....................
Assistant Income Tax Financial Supervisor....................
Assistant Manager of Audit Control and Personnel.....
Assistant Manager of Recreation.........................................
Assistant Superintendent of Pumping................................
Assistant Superintendent of Purification..........................
Auditor............................................................................................
Chief Alcoholism Coordinating Service..............................
Chief of the Demolition Bureau...........................................
Chief Plan Examiner................................................................
City Planner..................................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Recreation — Fiscal Control .....
Deputy Project Director...........................................................
District Supervisor — Environmental Health.................
Emergency Medical Technician Supervisor......................
Income Tax Supervisor.............................................................

Minimum
$19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74

Maximum
$46,454.98
56,649.76
44,884.04
44,884.04
44,884.04
46,454.98
44,884.04
44,884.04
44,884.04
46,454.98
44,884.04
44,884.04
46,454.98
46,454.98
56,649.76
46,454.98
44,884.04
46,454.98
44,884.04

20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.

Office of Professional Standards Investigative Auditor ....
Office of Professional Standards Research/Analyst.....
Project Program Director of Consumer Affairs.............
Recreation Center Manager....................................................
Superintendent of Light Equipment Maintenance.........
Superintendent of Vehicle Administrative Services......
Supervisor Administrative Services — Data Processing
Center..........................................................................................
Supervisor of Milk Program...................................................
Supervisor of Vector Control..................................................
Welfare Liaison...........................................................................

19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
32,500.00
19,784.74
19,784.74

44,884.04
44,884.04
44,884.04
56,649.76
44,884.04
44,884.04

19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74

44,884.04
44,884.04
44,884.04
44,884.04

Section 31. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.

Air Pollution Control, Engineer IV.....................................
Airport Safety Shift Commander..........................................
Assistant Administrator............................................................
Assistant Health Center Director.........................................
Assistant Manager of Marketing..........................................
Central Payroll Supervisor......................................................
Chief Building Inspector..........................................................
Chief Electrical Inspector.......................................................
Chief Elevator Inspector..........................................................
Chief Environmental Health — Engineering..................
Chief Heating Inspector...........................................................
Chief Housing Inspector..........................................................
Chief Plumbing Inspector........................................................
Chief Rehabilitation Supervisor............................................
Contract Supervisor — Division of Purchases
and Supplies..............................................................................
Data Processing Supervisor....................................................
Human Resources Contract Administrator.......................
Manager of Public Utilities Building Maintenance.......
Senior Systems Analyst............................................................
Shift Supervisor Operations....................................................
Superintendent of Distribution..............................................
Superintendent of Pumping....................................................
Superintendent of Purification..............................................
Supervising Tax Auditor.........................................................
Supervisor of Civil Service Records....................................

Minimum
$20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40

Maximum
$47,489.48
47,489.48
49,151.61
47,489.48
47,489.48
47,489.48
49,151.61
47,489.48
47,489.48
47,489.48
49,151.61
49,151.61
47,489.48
49,151.61

20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40

47,489.48
47,489.48
63,385.82
58,509.98
49,151.61
47,489.48
47,489.48
47,489.48
47,489.48
47,489.48
47,489.48

Section 32. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.

Airport Operations Superintendent.......................................
Airport Security Coordinator..................................................
Assistant Airport Safety Chief/Training Officer...........
Assistant Chief of Pumping...................................................
Assistant Chief of Purification.............................................
Assistant Manager of Box Office.........................................
Assistant Manager — Human Resources Planning
and Management.....................................................................
Assistant Manager of Stage...................................................
Chief of Bureau of Accounts and Collections.................
Chief of Bureau of Industrial Air Pollution...................
Chief of Bureau of Smoke Abatement...............................
Chief Engineer — Traffic.......................................................
Chief Senior Electric Switchboard Operator....................
Chief of Tax Auditing Bureau..............................................
Chief of Tax Records Bureau...............................................
Deputy Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies.........
Health Center Director.............................................................
Human Resources Fiscal Administrator............................
Income Tax Financial Supervisor........................................
Manager of Assigned Maintenance......................................
Manager of Parks and Recreation Research
and Planning............................................................................
Manager of Parks and Urban Forestry.............................
Manager of Shops and Field Equipment..........................
Manager of Site Development................................................
Project Director...........................................................................
Programming Supervisor..........................................................
Superintendent of Sidewalks..................................................
Superintendent of Water Plant Maintenance...................
Warehouse Inventory Manager.............................................

Minimum
$22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40

Maximum
$51,978.80
50,221.06
50,221.06
50,221.06
50,221.06
50,221.06

22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40

50,221.06
50,221.06
50,221.06
50,221.06
50,221.06
58,509.98
51,978.80
51,978.80
50,221.06
58,509.98
58,509.98
50,221.06
50,221.06
58,509.98

22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40

58,509.98
58,509.98
58,509.98
58,509.98
63,385.82
50,221.06
50,221.06
50,221.06
63,385.82

Section 33. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.

Accountant Supervisor..............................................................
Assistant Chief of Water Distribution...............................
Assistant Commissioner of Assessments and
Licenses......................................................................................
Assistant Commissioner, Division of Printing
and Reproduction....................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction..............................................................................
Building Manager.......................................................................
Chief Architect.............................................................................
Chief Auditor — Utilities........................................................
Chief City Planner.....................................................................
Chief, Computer Operations....................................................
Chief Engineer — Civil...........................................................
Chief Engineer — Mechanical...............................................
Chief Legal Investigator — Civil Branch........................
Chief of Street Lighting and Electrical Services..........
Chief of Laboratories................................................................
Chief of Purification.................................................................
Chief Surveyor.............................................................................
Convention Manager..................................................................
Financial Systems Coordinator..............................................
Fiscal Manager............................................................................
Investment Manager..................................................................
Manager of Enterprise Unit...................................................
Manager of Events.....................................................................
Manager of General Maintenance........................................
Manager of Markets..................................................................
Manager of Parking..................................................................
Manager of Production Power Generation.......................
Manager of Recreation.............................................................
Purchasing Supervisor — Division of Purchases
and Supplies..............................................................................
Secretary to the Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals...........................................................
Secretary to the Board of Zoning Appeals......................
Security Manager — Convention Center............................
Senior Internal Auditor............................................................
Senior Programmer Analyst...................................................
Supervisor of Food and Drug Administration.................
Supervisor — Information Control.......................................
Theatrical Manager....................................................................
Water Plant Manager...............................................................

Minimum
$23,647.11
23,647.11

Maximum
$52,914.21
54,766.21

23,647.11

52,914.21

23,647.11

66,784.93

23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
40,000.00

66,784.93
61,647.62
66,784.93
66,784.93
54,766.21
66,784.93
66,784.93
66,784.93
52,914.21
54,766.21
52,914.21
54,766.21
52,914.21
61,647.62
52,914.21
66,784.93
66,784.93
61,647.62
61,647.62
61,647.62
61,647.62
61,647.62
61,647.62
61,647.62

23,647.11

52,914.21

23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11

52,914.21
52,914.21
61,647.62
52,914.21
54,766.21
52,914.21
52,914.21
52,914.21
66,784.93

Section 34. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.

Airport Maintenance Manager...............................................
Airport Operations Manager...................................................
Airport Safety Chief..................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Administrative Services.....
Assistant Commissioner of Building and Housing........
Assistant Commissioner of Cleveland Public Power........
Assistant Commissioner of Motor Vehicles
Maintenance..............................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Neighborhood
Development..............................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Neighborhood
Revitalization...........................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Neighborhood Services.......
Assistant Commissioner of Streets.......................................
Assistant Commissioner of Waste Collection and
Disposal......................................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Water Pollution Control........
Assistant Director of Community Relations Board...........
Assistant Income Tax Administrator..................................
Assistant Superintendent of Electric Transmission
and Distribution......................................................................
Chief of Air Pollution Enforcement....................................
Chief of Air Pollution Engineering....................................
Chief of Air Pollution Information Systems....................
Chief of Air Pollution Monitoring.......................................

Minimum
$26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96

Maximum
$70,559.87
70,559.87
70,559.87
70,559.87
70,559.87
70,559.87

26,273.96

70,559.87

26,273.96

70,559.87

26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96

70,559.87
70,559.87
70,559.87

26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96

70,559.87
70,559.87
70,559.87
57,861.80

26,273.96
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40

57,861.80
63,385.82
63,385.82
63,385.82
63,385.82

21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.

Chief of Civil Service Examiner..........................................
Chief of Pharmacy Services...................................................
Chief of Pumping.......................................................................
Chief of Water Distribution...................................................
Chief Training Officer..............................................................
City Hall Custodian...................................................................
Community Development Executive Assistant................
Contract Compliance Officer...................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Accounts......................................
Deputy Commissioner of Air Pollution Control..............
Deputy Commissioner of Airports........................................
Deputy Commissioner of Convention Center
and Stadium..............................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Convention Center
and Stadium/West Side Market............................................
Deputy Commissioner of Maintenance...............................
Deputy Commissioner of Parks and Urban
Forestry......................................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Parks and Urban
Forestry/Golf Courses and Cemeteries..........................
Deputy Commissioner of Recreation...................................
Director of Public Health Nurses.........................................
General Manager of Administrative Services..................
Office of Professional Standards Administrator.............
Manager of Human Resources Program Planning
and Management.....................................................................
Personnel Administrator..........................................................
Senior Budget and Management Analyst..........................
Superintendent of Industrial Claims...................................
Superintendent of Motorized Equipment...........................
Utilities Comptroller..................................................................

26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96

55,905.12
70,559.87
55,905.12
57,861.80
55,905.12
55,905.12
70,559.87
55,905.12
65,132.18
65,132.18
65,132.18

26,273.96

65,132.18

26,273.96
26,273.96

65,132.18
65,132.18

26,273.96

65,132.18

26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96

65,132.18
65,132.18
65,132.18
70,559.87
55,905.12

26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96

65,132.18
65,132.18
57,861.80
55,905.12
55,905.12
70,559.87

Section 35. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.

Assistant Commissioner of Water........................................
Assistant Secretary of Sinking Fund Commission........
Chief of Health Planning and Evaluation.......................
Chief — Systems Analysis......................................................
Consulting Engineer..................................................................
Harbor Manager..........................................................................
Labor Relations Officer............................................................
Manager of Architecture..........................................................
Manager of Compensation and Classifications...............
Manager of Education and Research.................................
Manager of Employee Accident Control............................
Manager of Employee Relations..........................................
Manager of Equal Employment Opportunity...................
Manager of Recruitment..........................................................
Minority Business Development Administrator...............
Project Coordinator....................................................................
Risk Manager...............................................................................
Superintendent of Electric Trouble Operations..............

Minimum
$27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56

Maximum
$77,232.81
77,232.81
61,192.14
77,232.81
77,232.81
77,232.81
61,192.14
71,291.82
71,291.82
71,291.82
71,291.82
71,291.82
71,291.82
71,291.82
61,192.14
71,291.82
77,232.81
61,192.14

Section 36. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

Administrator of Engineering and Planning...................
Airport Chief Engineer.............................................................
Airport Planning Environmental Officer...........................
Air Trade Development Manager.........................................
Assistant Director of Human Resources and
Economic Development.........................................................
Budget Administrator................................................................
Chief of Personnel Management...........................................
Comptroller-Airports...................................................................
Data Base Analyst.....................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Building and Housing............
Deputy Commissioner of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport.............................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Parks, Maintenance
and Properties..........................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Water............................................
Deputy Commissioner of Water Pollution Control........
Executive Commissioner for Administration of
Department of Finance.........................................................

Minimum
$30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95

Maximum
$88,843.46
88,843.46
70,391.35
82,009.34

30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95

88,843.46
82,009.34
82,009.34
88,843.46
70,391.35
82,009.34

30,214.95

82,009.34

30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95

82,009.34
82,009.34
82,009.34

30,214.95

82,009.34

16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.

Executive Commissioner of Parks and
Urban Forestry........................................................................
Field Manager..............................................................................
Hardware Analyst......................................................................
Labor Relations Manager........................................................
Manager of Electric System Operation..............................
Manager of Human Resources Monitoring and
Evaluation.................................................................................
Manager of Marketing..............................................................
Manager of Properties..............................................................
Manager of Public Service Operations...............................
Manager of Telecommunications..........................................
Permit Review Manager..........................................................
Project Leader/Applications...................................................
Software Analyst.........................................................................
Superintendent of Electric Transmission
and Distribution......................................................................
Supervisor of Computer Operations.....................................
Supervisor Hardware Evaluation.........................................
Telecommunications Analyst..................................................
Veterinarian in Charge of Spay and
Neuter Clinic.............................................................................

30,214.95
35,000.00
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95

82,009.34
45,000.00
82,009.34
88,843.46
82,009.34

30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
35,000.00
30,214.95
30,214.95

82,009.34
82,009.34
82,009.34
82,009.34
82,009.34
50,000.00
70,391.35
70,391.35

30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95

70,391.35
70,391.35
70,391.35
70,391.35

30,214.95

70,391.35

Section 37. That the appointing authority shall fix the salaries in the following classifications in accordance
with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.

City Comptroller ........................................................................
City Treasurer ............................................................................
Commissioner of Accounts ....................................................
Commissioner of Administrative Services —
Community Development ....................................................
Commissioner of Architecture ..............................................
Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses....................
Commissioner of Building and Housing............................
Commissioner of Burke Airport............................................
Commissioner of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport ...............................................................
Commissioner of Cleveland Public Power........................
Commissioner of Convention Center ..................................
Commissioner of Emergency Medical Services .............
Commissioner of Engineering and Construction ..........
Commissioner of Environment .............................................
Commissioner of Health .........................................................
Commissioner of House of Corrections ............................
Commissioner of Information Systems Services.............
Commissioner of Motor Vehicle Maintenance ................
Commissioner of Neighborhood Development ................
Commissioner of Neighborhood Revitalization ..............
Commissioner of Neighborhood Services .........................
Commissioner of Park Maintenance and Properties ........
Commissioner of Parking Facilities ..................................
Commissioner of Printing and Reproduction .................
Commissioner of Property Management ..........................
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies .......................
Commissioner of Recreation .................................................
Commissioner of Research/Planning and
Development ............................................................................
Commissioner of Streets .........................................................
Commissioner of Traffic Engineering and Parking ...
Commissioner of Utilities Engineering ............................
Commissioner of Utilities Fiscal Control ........................
Commissioner of Waste Collection and Disposal .........
Commissioner of Water ..........................................................
Commissioner of Water Pollution Control ......................
Income Tax Administrator ....................................................
Manager of Internal Audit ...................................................

Minimum
$41,312.22
41,312.22
38,951.52

Maximum
$108,845.80
100,473.05
104,266.80

38,951.52
41,312.22
38,951.52
43,672.91
38,951.52

104,266.80
116,584.69
96,246.28
115,714.26
96,246.28

41,312.22
43,672.91
43,672.91
41,312.22
43,672.91
41,312.22
43,672.91
38,951.52
50,400.00
38,951.52
38,951.52
41,312.22
41,312.22
41,312.22
38,951.52
38,951.52
43,672.91
41,312.22
41,312.22

116,584.69
115,714.26
106,813.16
108,845.80
115,714.26
108,845.80
115,714.26
96,246.28
115,714.26
104,266.80
96,246.28
100,473.05
100,473.05
116,584.69
104,266.80
104,266.80
115,714.26
100,473.05
116,584.69

38,951.52
38,951.52
41,312.22
41,312.22
38,951.52
38,951.52
43,672.91
38,951.52
41,312.22
38,951.52

104,266.80
104,266.80
100,473.05
96,246.28
96,246.28
104,266.80
115,714.26
104,266.80
108,845.80
96,246.28

Section 38. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Assistant Manager — Applications Development and
Technical Support...................................................................
Assistant Manager — Data Processing Operations...........
Assistant to Manager of Planning......................................
Deputy Commissioner of Cleveland Public Power........

Minimum

Maximum

$46,224.91
46,224.91
46,224.91
46,224.91

$98,555.96
90,974.74
90,974.74
90,974.74

Section 39. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:
Minimum
Maximum
1.
Data Base Administrator.........................................................
$39,937.34
$86,684.04
2.
Supervisor Applications Development.................................
39,937.34
68,680.43
3.
Supervisor Software Support..................................................
39,937.34
68,680.43
4.
Supervisor Quality Assurance................................................
39,937.34
68,680.43
Section 40. That the appointing authority shall fix the salary of the Manager, Data Processing Center, at not
less than $50,540.00 per annum and not more than $101,779.10 per annum. Moreover, not more than one person shall
be appointed to such classification.
Section 41. Part-Time/Seasonal Group.
That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in
accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.

Box Office Cashier ...................................................................
Chaplain ........................................................................................
Checker .........................................................................................
Conservation Aide .....................................................................
Dentist ...........................................................................................
Head Usher ..................................................................................
Medical Examiner .....................................................................
Organ Tuner ...............................................................................
Park Maintenance Aide ..........................................................
Ranger ...........................................................................................
School Crossing Guard ............................................................
Section Supervisor.......................................................................
Snow Removal Vehicle Operator ........................................
Stage Hand ..................................................................................
Stage Hand Casual ...................................................................
Stage Hand — Show Rate ....................................................
Student Aide ...............................................................................
Student Assistant ......................................................................
Usher ..............................................................................................
Usher Captain .............................................................................

$10.30
$ 6.74
$ 5.15
$ 5.15
$13.38
$ 5.15
$21.40
$ 9.63
$ 5.15
$ 5.15
$16.50
$ 5.50
$10.40
$18.55
$20.00
$63.00
$ 6.00
$ 5.15
$ 5.15
$ 5.89

Minimum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per day
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per show
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

Maximum
$12.66 per hour
$10.67 per hour
$ 6.71 per hour
$ 5.44 per hour
$26.55 per hour
$10.54 per hour
$54.45 per hour
$23.29 per hour
$ 7.97 per hour
$10.41 per hour
$20.18 per day
$ 6.40 per hour
$12.72 per hour
$23.73 per hour
$24.01 per hour
$78.28 per show
$ 8.05 per hour
$ 7.09 per hour
$ 6.14 per hour
$ 7.42 per hour

Section 42. Hourly Rate — Crafts.
Compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by
the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification:
Effective
Date
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Asbestos Worker .......................................................................
Asphalt Construction Foreman ............................................
Asphalt Raker ............................................................................
Asphalt Tamper .........................................................................
Boiler Maker ...............................................................................

6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.

Bricklayer ....................................................................................
Bricklayer Foreman .................................................................
Bricklayer Helper .....................................................................
Carpenter ......................................................................................
Carpenter Foreman ...................................................................
Carpenter Apprentice ...............................................................
Cement Finisher ........................................................................
Cement Finisher Foreman .....................................................
Construction Equipment Operator — Group A .............
Construction Equipment Operator — Group B ..............
Construction Equipment Operator — Group C ..............
Construction Equipment Operator — Group D .............
Construction Equipment Operator — Group E .............
Construction Equipment Operator — Oiler — Group F .......
Curb Cutter ..................................................................................
Electrical Worker .....................................................................
Electrical Worker Foreman ..................................................
Glazier ...........................................................................................
Ironworker ...................................................................................
Ironworker Foreman ................................................................
Jackhammer Operator .............................................................
Master Mechanic ........................................................................
Overhead Floodlight Maintenance Man ............................

5-1-98
5-1-99
5-1-99
5-1-99
5-1-98
10-1-97
5-1-98
5-1-98
5-1-99
5-1-98
5-1-98
5-1-92
5-1-98
5-1-98
5-1-98
5-1-98
5-1-98
5-1-98
5-1-98
5-1-98
5-1-99
5-1-98
5-1-98
5-1-98
5-1-98
5-1-98
5-1-99
5-1-98
5-1-92

Minimum

Maximum

$27.42
19.42
18.62
18.62
28.34
27.74
24.32
25.32
19.13
24.12
25.12
5.97
24.47
25.47
25.17
25.02
24.32
23.54
23.22
17.24
19.03
27.54
28.54
24.38
27.50
28.50
18.62
25.67
21.19

$34.28
29.13
27.93
27.93
35.67
34.67
30.40
31.40
28.69
30.14
31.94
16.43
30.59
31.59
28.78
28.63
27.93
27.15
26.83
20.85
28.55
34.42
35.42
30.47
34.38
28.50
27.93
29.28
26.49

29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.

Painter ...........................................................................................
Painter — Apprentice .............................................................
Painter Foreman .......................................................................
Paver ..............................................................................................
Paving Foreman ........................................................................
Pipefitter (Welder) ..................................................................
Pipefitter Foreman ...................................................................
Plasterer .......................................................................................
Plasterer Foreman......................................................................
Plumber (Welder) .....................................................................
Plumber Foreman .....................................................................
Roofer ............................................................................................
Sheet Metal Worker .................................................................
Sheet Metal Worker Foreman ..............................................
Sign Painter ................................................................................
Sign Painter Unit Leader ......................................................
Spray Painter .............................................................................
Superintendent of Construction Equipment ....................

5-1-98
5-1-92
5-1-98
5-1-99
5-1-99
5-1-98
5-1-98
5-1-98
5-1-98
5-1-98
5-1-98
5-1-98
5-1-98
5-1-98
5-1-94
5-1-94
5-1-94
5-1-99

23.55
6.95
24.55
18.88
19.42
28.54
29.54
24.02
25.02
28.03
29.03
24.78
27.07
28.07
22.55
23.55
20.22
19.42

29.44
14.89
30.44
28.32
29.13
35.68
36.68
30.03
31.03
35.04
36.04
30.97
33.84
34.84
25.61
26.61
23.34
29.13

Section 43. Municipal Court Employees.
That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in
accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.

Associate Director.......................................................................
Bailiff..............................................................................................
Chief Deputy Bailiff..................................................................
Chief Magistrate..........................................................................
Chief Probation Officer............................................................
Clinical Director..........................................................................
Deputy Bailiff..............................................................................
Deputy Bailiff Administrative Assistant — Finance.......
Deputy Bailiff Administrative Assistant — Operations....
Deputy Bailiff Assistant Director of Data Processing....
Deputy Bailiff Assistant Jury Commissioner..................
Deputy Bailiff Central Scheduling Director.....................
Deputy Bailiff Chief Court Reporter..................................
Deputy Bailiff Clerk Typist...................................................
Deputy Bailiff — Court Administrator..............................
Deputy Bailiff — Court Reporter.........................................
Deputy Bailiff Data Processor..............................................
Deputy Bailiff Deputy Court Administrator....................
Deputy Bailiff/Deputy Court Administrator Chief
Information Officer................................................................
Deputy Bailiff Deputy Chief Court Reporter..................
Deputy Bailiff Director of Data Processing....................
Deputy Bailiff Finance Officer.............................................
Deputy Bailiff General.............................................................
Deputy Bailiff Jury Commissioner......................................
Deputy Bailiff Law Clerk.......................................................
Deputy Chief Magistrate..........................................................
Deputy Bailiff — Office Manager........................................
Deputy Bailiff Private Secretary..........................................
Deputy Bailiff Public Information Officer.......................
Deputy Bailiff Scheduler I......................................................
Deputy Bailiff Session Room Supervisor...........................
Deputy Bailiff — Special Projects Officer.......................
Deputy Bailiff Supervisor........................................................
Deputy Bailiff Systems Analyst...........................................
Deputy Bailiff Training Officer............................................
Deputy Chief Probation Officer............................................
Immobilization Officer..............................................................
Magistrate......................................................................................
Municipal Court Psychologist................................................
Personal Bailiff...........................................................................
Probation Officer General.......................................................
Probation Officer Supervisor..................................................
Psychiatric Case Worker.........................................................
Psychiatric Social Worker.......................................................
Psychologist II.............................................................................
Small Claims Magistrate..........................................................
Student Aide.................................................................................
Traffic Court Magistrate.........................................................

$18.47

$15.60
$47.74

$60.00
$5.15

Minimum
$37,783.00
36,085.00
37,569.00
48,620.00
50,395.00
37,783.00
21,424.00
39,173.00
39,173.00
22,223.00
21,907.00
41,755.17
41,755.00
19,526.00
62,624.00
22,914.00
21,100.00
45,486.00

Maximum
$68,085.41
61,110.54
69,929.78
75,514.64
75,514.64
68,085.41
47,610.00
58,208.40
58,208.40
54,901.58
49,943.93
69,955.65
65,789.78
29,249.10
84,870.00
50,936.49
47,145.29
72,953.01

45,486.00
22,923.00
58,349.00
39,173.00
21,424.00
37,783.00
21,250.00
40,752.00
39,827.00
20,112.00
per hour
22,284.00
22,284.00
30,000.00
41,368.00
35,000.00
31,000.00
42,318.00
per hour
40,752.00
per hour
43,285.00
28,585.00
48,616.00
21,681.00
21,907.00
per hour
20,687.00
per hour
40,752.00

84,870.00
52,450.70
87,870.00
58,208.40
50,715.00
59,875.79
44,519.49
66,794.76
69,641.01
31,629.60
per hour
44,752.37
49,957.38
58,995.00
61,110.54
56,925.00
58,995.00
67,409.55
per hour
66,794.76
per hour
60,030.00
51,139.35
67,908.42
51,139.35
50,978.93
per hour
50,223.38
per hour
65,944.00

$34.74

$24.69
$93.15

$86.94
$8.80

Section 44. Division of Police; Chief of Police and Deputy Chief of Police.
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following ranks of the Division of Police shall be fixed by the
appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.

Rank
Chief of Police ...........................................................................
Deputy Chief of Police ...........................................................

Minimum
$69,682.20
63,966.00

Maximum
$139,534.46
117,556.56

Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 171.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the Chief of Police shall not be entitled to receive any overtime compensation while serving as Chief of
Police.
Section 45. Division of Police; Supervisory Ranks.
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following ranks of the Division of Police shall be fixed by the
appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Rank
Commander of Police ..............................................................
Deputy Inspector .......................................................................
Captain ..........................................................................................
Lieutenant ....................................................................................
Sergeant ........................................................................................

Minimum
$75,763.08
75,763.08
65,243.30
56,175.48
48,358.14

Maximum
$76,263.08
76,263.08
65,743.30
56,675.48
48,858.14

Section 46. Division of Police, Patrol Officers.
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the ranks of patrol officer shall be fixed by the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Patrol Officer I ..........................................................................
Patrol Officer II ........................................................................
Patrol Officer III ......................................................................
Patrol Officer IV .......................................................................
Trainee ..........................................................................................

Minimum
$41,619.65
38,197.95
37,664.92
36,598.87
$8.50 per hour

Maximum
$42,119.65
38,197.95
37,664.92
36,598.87
$8.50 per hour

Section 47. Division of Police, Various Positions.
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following classifications within the Division of Police shall be
fixed by the Director of Public Safety within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Junior Assistant Secretary of Police ................................
Surgeon of Police ......................................................................
Superintendent of Criminalistics .........................................
Superintendent of Safety Buildings ...................................

Minimum
$26,213.25
43,107.75
30,086.70
30,086.70

Maximum
$50,183.80
67,569.79
61,297.84
59,224.97

Section 48. Division of Fire; Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following ranks of the Division of Fire shall be fixed by the
appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.

Fire Chief ....................................................................................
Assistant Fire Chief ................................................................

Minimum
$64,407.00
56,790.30

Maximum
$139,534.46
104,649.47

Section 49. Division of Fire; Various Positions.
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following ranks of the Division of Fire shall be fixed by the
appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Battalion Chief ...........................................................................
Captain ..........................................................................................
Lieutenant ....................................................................................
Firefighter
Journeyman .................................................................................
Apprentice — Medic III .........................................................
Apprentice — Medic II ...........................................................
Apprentice — Medic I .............................................................
Trainee ..........................................................................................

Minimum
$63,177.39
56,176.20
48,358.79
41,619.65
37,697.95
37,164.92
36,098.87
$ 8.50 per hour

Maximum
$63,677.39
56,676.20
48,858.79
42,119.65
38,197.95
37,664.92
36,598.87
$ 8.50 per hour

Section 50. That existing Ordinance No. 436-97, passed April 14, 1997, as from time to time amended, be and the
same is hereby repealed, effective April 1, 1999.
Section 51. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 521-99.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 1744-97, passed October 20, 1997,
in conjunction with the Year 2000
project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1744-97,
passed October 20, 1997, are hereby
amended to read, respectively, as
follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase
by requirement contract or various
written
standard
purchase
contracts of computer hardware, software and supplies, office furniture,
equipment,
data
processing services, employee training, and building equipment and maintenance for
various division of City government and authorizing said director

to employ one or more computer
consultants and data processors to
provide professional services, in
conjunction with the Year 2000 project.
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized and
directed to make written requirement contracts in accordance with
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
the requirements for the period of
one year or written standard purchase contracts, as determined by
the Director of Finance,
for the
necessary items of computer hardware, software and supplies, office
furniture, equipment, data processing services, employee training,
and building equipment, including
parts and maintenance, in conjunction with the Year 2000 computer
compliance project, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the various divisions of City government, City Council and Cleveland Municipal Court. For requirement contracts, bids shall be taken
in such manner as to permit an
award to be made for all items as

a single contract or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is
made for the requirements for the
entire year. The Year 2000 project
authorized by this ordinance shall
be conducted in accordance with
the document contained in File No.
1744-97-B.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 174497, passed October 20, 1997, are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 522-99.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and Human Resources to accept allocations of
grants from the State of Ohio Bureau of Employment Services under Titles II and III of the Job Training
Partnership Act and to appropriate such funds to provide for administration of the JTPA program by the Department of Personnel and Human Resources.
Whereas, the Job Training Partnership Act of 1982, Public Law 97-300, as amended by the Job Training
Reform Amendments of 1992, Public Law 102-367 (“JTPA”), is a New Federalism program, the purpose of which
is to “. . . establish programs to prepare youth and adults facing serious barriers to employment for participation in the labor force by providing job training and other services that will result in increased employment and earnings, increased educational and occupational skills, and decreased welfare dependence, thereby
improving the quality of the workforce and enhancing the productivity and competitiveness of the Nation”;
and
Whereas, in accordance with the JTPA, the Governor of the State of Ohio has designated service delivery and
substate areas for the JTPA throughout Ohio and the Governor has designated the geographic boundaries of the
City of Cleveland (“City”) as Service Delivery Area (“SDA”) and Substate Area (“SSA”) No. 20; and
Whereas, in accordance with the agreement required by the JTPA and approved by the Governor, for the JTPA
Program Years (“PY”) ’99 for the period of July 1, 1999 through June 30, 2000, between the Chairman of the Private Industry Council of Cleveland (“PICC”) and the City, the City has been designated the JTPA grant recipient; administrative entity; and, substate grantee in SDA/SSA No. 20; and
Whereas, the Secretary of the United States Department of Labor has issued allotments of the JTPA funds to
the Ohio Bureau of Employment Services which has issued allocations under JTPA Titles II and III to the City
for PY ’99 subject to the approval of the comprehensive job training and substate plan; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Personnel and Human Resources is hereby authorized to accept the following
allocations of grants from the State of Ohio Bureau of Employment Services under the JTPA, Title II - Training
Services For The Disadvantaged, and Title III, for the delivery of allowable program services to eligible individuals, and to credit said grants to the fund and subfunds designated herein:
GRANT NAME

FUND

AMOUNT

Title II Part A 77%
Adult Training Program

15 SF 091

$ 3,938,517.00

Title II Part A 5%
Services for Older Individuals

15 SF 092

$

261,990.00

Title lI Part C 8%
State Education Coordination and Grants

15 SF 096

$

374,672.00

Title II Part C 82%
Youth Training Program

15 SF 095

$

576,295.00

Title II Part B
Summer Youth Employment and Training Program

15 SF 094

$ 4,541,538.00

Title III
Employment and Training Assistance
for Dislocated Workers

15 SF 093

$ 1,250,722.00

TOTAL

$10,943,734.00

The Director of Personnel and Human Resources is hereby authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to accept and receive the funds under said grants.
Section 2. That the following sums from each grant specified in Section 1 herein are hereby appropriated as
follows to provide for administration of the JTPA program:
A.

B.

C.

D.

E.

Adult Training Program
Personnel and Related Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$ 1,339,095.00
2,599,422.00

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$ 3,938,517.00

Services for Older Individuals
Personnel and Related Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

89,076.00
172,914.00

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

261,990.00

State Education, Coordination and Grants
Personnel and Related Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

374,672.00

Youth Training Program
Personnel and Related Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

195,941.00
380,354.00

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

576,295.00

Summer Youth Employment and Training Program
Personnel and Related Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

794,769.00
3,746,769.00

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
F.

$ 127,389.00
247,283.00

Employment and Training Assistance For Dislocated Workers
Personnel and Related Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$ 4,541,538.00

$

425,245.00
825,477.00

$ 1,250,722.00

Section 3. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 523-99.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with Ohio Nurses Association.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That in accordance with
division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the
Revised Code, this Council hereby
approves a collective bargaining
agreement with Ohio Nurses Association which contains the terms set
forth in File No. 523-99-A, for the
period from April 1, 1998 through
March 31, 2001, and which provides,
among other things, for an increase
in the salaries and wages for members of the bargaining unit in accordance with the following schedule:
Increase
Three percent (3%)

Effective Date
of Increase
April 1, 1998

Three and one-half
percent (3.5%)

April 1, 1999

Three and one-half
percent (3.5%)

April 1, 2000

Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of

all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Ord. No. 524-99.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with Association of Cleveland
Firefighters, Local 93.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That in accordance with
division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the
Revised Code and subject to an arbitration award, this Council hereby
approves a collective bargaining
agreement
with
Association
of
Cleveland
Firefighters,
Local
93
which contains the terms set forth
in File No. 524-99-A, for the period
from April 1, 1998 through March 31,
2001, and which provides, among
other things, for an increase in the
salaries and wages for members of
the bargaining unit in accordance
with the following schedule:

Increase

Effective Date
of Increase

Three percent (3%)

April 1, 1998

Three and one-half
percent (3.5%)

April 1, 1999

Three and one-half
percent (3.5%)

April 1, 2000

Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Ord. No. 525-99.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 171.07 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 712-83,
passed March 28, 1983, relating to
longevity pay.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 171.07 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 712-83, passed March
28, 1983, is hereby amended to read
as follows:
Section 171.07 Longevity Pay
Beginning in 1999 and continuing
each calendar year thereafter, all
regular full-time employees of the
City, when the agreement includes
a
longevity
payment
schedule,
except employees covered by a collective
bargaining,
where
the
agreement
includes
a
longevity
payment
schedule,
members
of
boards and commissions, members
of the building trades paid on the
basis of building trades’ prevailing
wages
and
employees
whose
longevity pay is established by
other sections of the Codified Ordinances, shall receive longevity pay
on or before March 31 of the current year in the amount set forth
below, based upon the length of the
person’s service with the City on or
before March 1 of the current year,
as follows:
Years

Annual Payment

5 through 9
10 through 14
15 through 19
20 through 24
Over 24

$200.00
375.00
475.00
600.00
700.00

Section 2. That existing Section
171.07 of the Codified Ordinances
of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
as
amended by Ordinance No. 712-83,
passed March 28, 1983, is hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Ord. No. 526-99.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with Cleveland Police Patrolmen’s Association.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That in accordance
with division (B) of Section 4117.10
of the Revised Code and subject to
an arbitration award, this Council
hereby approves a collective bargaining agreement with Cleveland
Police
Patrolmen’s
Association
which contains the terms set forth
in File No. 526-99-A, for the period
from April 1, 1998 through March
31,
2001,
and
which
provides,
among other things, for an increase
in the salaries and wages for members of the bargaining unit in
accordance
with
the
following
schedule:

Increase

Effective Date
of Increase

Three percent (3%)

April 1, 1998

Three and one-half
percent (3.5%)

April 1, 1999

Three and one-half
percent (3.5%)

April 1, 2000

Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Ord. No. 527-99.
By Councilmen Cintron and Melena.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for a WSEM’s Kilometers for
Kids, on May 16, 1999, sponsored by
the West Side Ecumenical Ministry.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the
Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
this
Council
consents
to
and
approves the holding of the WSEM’s
Kilometers for Kids sponsored by
the West Side Ecumenical Ministry,
on May 16, 1999, starting at the
West Side Market lot at the southwest corner, proceeding west on
Lorain to West 25th Street. Crossing
West 25th and turning right to Market Square, proceed west on Market
Square, across West 26th, through
the lot to West 28th, take a right on
west 28th to Lutheran Hospital, then
cross Fulton to Franklin Circle
Christian Church, make a right on
Bridge to West 38th, then take a
right from West 38th to Franklin
Blvd., take Franklin and make a
left on West 65th, make a right on
West Clinton and then make a right
on West 58th, make a left onto
Detroit Avenue and proceed to 5209,
WSEM’s new Administrative Center,
provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinance of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in
order to protect the participants in
the event. Said permit shall further
provide that the
City of
Cleveland, shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability
resulting from the issuance of the
same, to the extent and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.

Ord. No. 528-99.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for a City Ride 99 on June 5,
1999, sponsored by Ohio Motorist
Safety Foundation.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the
Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
this
Council consents
to
and
approves the holding of a City Ride
’99 sponsored by Ohio Motorist Safety
Foundation, on June
5, 1999,
starting at the North Coast Harbor
(parcel H) go to E. 9th south to
Eagle, Eagle to Ontario, Ontario to
Lakeside, Lakeside to E. 9th, E. 9th
to finish at the North Coast Harbor
(parcel H), provided that the applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of
Section 411.05 of
the
Codified Ordinance of Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976. Streets
may be
closed as determined by the Chief
of Police and safety forces as may
be necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that
the
City of
Cleveland
shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the
same,
to
the extent and in
form satisfactory to the Director of
Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Ord. No. 529-99.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Americas Walk For
Diabetes (WALKTOBERFEST) on
October 3, 1999, sponsored by American Diabetes Association.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Americas Walk
For Diabetes (WALKTOBERFEST),
sponsored by American Diabetes
Association, on October 3, 1999, starting at Nautica Stage/Power House,
West Banks of the Flats, west on
Main Ave. to Center St., east on Center St. to Columbus Rd., east on
Columbus Rd. to Merwin Ave., north
on Merwin Ave. to W. Superior Ave.,
east on W. Superior to Public
Square, south on Public Square to
Ontario Ave., south on Ontario Ave.
to Huron Rd., east on Huron Rd. to
Prospect to E. 14th, north on E. 19th
St. to Euclid Ave., west on Euclid
Ave. to E. 9th St., north on E. 9th
St.
to
Erieside
Ave.,
west
on
Erieside Ave. to W. 3rd St., south on

W. 3rd St. to Lakeside Ave., west on
Lakeside Ave. to W. 9th St., north
on E. 9th St. to Front Ave., west on
Front Ave. to Old Rover Rd., south
on Old River Rd. to Merwin Center
St., south on Merwin to Columbus
Rd., west on Columbus Rd. to Center Rd., west on Center Rd. to Main
Ave., east on Main Ave. to the
Boardwalk, east on the Boardwalk
and
back
to
the
Nautica
Stage/Power House, provided that
the applicant sponsor shall meet all
the requirements of Section 411.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Ord. No. 530-99.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the March of Dimes
WalkAmerica (3 or 6 miles) on
April 25, 1999, sponsored by Finast,
KeyBank, Meridia, MBNA, TV-l9 and
Q104.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this Council
consents to and approves the holding of the March of Dimes WalkAmerica (3 or 6 miles), sponsored by
Finast, KeyBank, Meridia, MBNA,
TV-l9 and Q104, on April 25, 1999,
starting from the southwest quadrant of Public Square cross Superior
on the west side of the quadrant.
Turn west on the north side of Superior and go down into the Flats on
Superior at the north side of the Veterans Memorial Bridge. At the base
of the hill cross the tracks for the
Waterfront Line to the open area of
the station. From the Waterfront
Line Station go north on the sidewalk between the tracks and the
river to Old River Road. Go north on
the west side of Old River Road to
Dick’s Last Resort which would be
check point 1. Continue north on the
west side of Old River Road to
Fagans at the corner of Old River
Road and Front St., which will be
check point 2. Go east on the north
side of Front Street to West Ninth
Street and go south on the east side
of that street to St. Clair Ave. and
turn east on the north side of St.
Clair. Go east on the north side of
St. Clair to West Third Street. Cross
West Third Street to the east side of
the street, turn left on West Third
Street and go north on the east side
of the Street to check point 3 on the
sidewalk along Lakeside at the park

at the northeast corner of Lakeside
and West Third. Go east on the
north side of Lakeside to East Ninth
Street. Go south, crossing Lakeside
on the west side of East Ninth Street
to check point 4 at the Federal
Office Building at the corner of
Lakeside and East Ninth Street. Continue south on the west side of East
Ninth Street to St. Clair, and cross
St. Clair to the south side of the
street. Go west on the south side of
St. Clair to Memorial Plaza, entering
at the northeast corner of the plaza
to check point 5. People doing the
short route would exit Memorial
Plaza at the southwest corner of the
Plaza and cross the northeast quadrant of Public Square to the start
finish at the southwest quadrant at
this time. Full route. Exit Memorial
Plaza at the southern ante room,
passing between the Federal Court
House and the Public Library. Cross
Superior to the south side of the
street and go east to check point 6
at 800 Superior, which is McDonald
and Co. Continue east on the south
side of Superior to the east side of
East Twelfth St. Turn right on the
east side of East Twelfth St. and
cross to the south side of Chester
Ave. Go east on the south side of
Chester to East Twenty Second
Street and turn north on the west
side of the street. Go south on the
south side of Chester to East Twenty Second Street to the intersection
of Euclid and East Twenty Second.
Cross Euclid to the south side of the
street and go east to check point 7
at
Rascal
House.
From
Rascal
House go west on the south side of
Euclid to check point 8 at Star
Plaza. From Star Plaza continue
west on the south side of Euclid to
Public Square, crossing Ontario to
the end of the walk at the southwest
quadrant of Public Square, provided
that the applicant sponsor shall meet
all the requirements of Section 411.05
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit
shall further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Ord. No. 531-99.
By Councilman Jones.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling
in
Ward
1.
(Anthony
Jones).
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to peddle upon the public
rights of way outside of the Central
Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons to engage in peddling outside

of the Central Business District,
and has determined that it is in the
public interest to allow each of
said persons to peddle in Ward 1;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.07
of
the Codified
Ordinances,
to
allow each person named below to
engage in peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 1: Anthony
Jones.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this
ordinance.
Section
3. That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999, without the
signature of the Mayor.
Ord. No. 532-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance to permit
parking in Willard Garage for attendees of the Neighborhood Leadership Cleveland reception on April 22,
1999.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary,
attendees of the reception in honor
of Neighborhood Leadership Cleveland to be held in Cleveland City
Hall on the evening of April 22,
1999, shall be permitted to park free
of charge in Willard Garage after
6:00 on April 22, 1999.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
Ord. No. 549-99.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the City of Cleveland to implement a plan to allow certain City
employees to purchase additional
service credit from the Police and
Fire Disability and Pension Fund,
tax-deferred by payroll deduction.
Whereas, Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) Code Section 414(h)(2)
permits employer “pick-up” of the

employee contributions to a retirement plan, thereby resulting in
tax deferral of such contributions;
and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Revised
Code Chapter 742 and Police and
Fire Disability and Pension Fund
(“PFDPF”) plan conditions, members may be allowed to (1) redeposit
contributions previously withdrawn,
plus interest, and/or (2) purchase
additional forms of permissive service credit; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
no current plan authorizing the purchase of additional service credit
from PFDPF on a pre-tax basis; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That effective April 1,
1999, members of the PFDPF who
are eligible under IRS Code Section
414(h)(2) and Revised Code Chapter 742 may purchase additional
service credit tax deferred and the
City shall withhold the authorized
service credit deduction from the
gross pay of each person who
elects to purchase additional service credit and pay the deduction
from the PFDPF. A person electing
this pick up deduction shall not
have the option of choosing to
receive
the
payroll
deduction
directly instead of having this
deduction picked up by the City
and paid to the PFDPF.
Members who have elected to participate in this plan cannot increase,
decrease or terminate the amount of
the pick up deduction.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
take all necessary procedural and
administrative action to implement
the provisions of this ordinance to
effect the pick up of the payroll
deduction for the purchase of addi-

tional service credit to the PFDPF,
including entering into irrevocable
salary reduction agreements with
eligible employees. The form of
such agreement shall contain such
terms and conditions as are acceptable to the Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 1999.
Effective April 7, 1999.
REPRINT
Ord. No. 185-99.
By Councilmen Jones, White and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the
Directors
of
Parks,
Recreation and Properties and Personnel and Human Resources to
employ one or more temporary
employment agencies, to provide
professional services to supply temporary and seasonal personnel for
the Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties for a period of
one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and Human Resources are hereby
authorized and directed to employ
by contract one or more temporary
employment agency or agencies for
the purpose of supplementing the

regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to supply temporary and seasonal personnel for a period of one year for the
Departments of Parks, Recreation
and Properties and Personnel and
Human Services from a list of qualified consultants available for such
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass
by the Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Personnel
and Human Resources for the purpose of compiling such a list. The
compensation to be paid for such
services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control. The contract herein
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Directors of Parks, Recreation and
Properties
and
Personnel
and
Human Resources, and certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs for such
services herein contemplated shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 13 SF 708,
13 SF 800, 62 SF 001, 63 SF 001, 0170-12-0380, Request No. 22473.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 22, 1999.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
NO MEETINGS

Index to Council Proceedings
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Authorizing the Director of Aging to apply for and accept a grant from the Western Reserve
Area Agency on Aging for the 1999 Title III-B G.O.W./Supportive Services/Chore Worker
Program (O 178-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 552

American Diabetes Association
Consenting and approving the issuance of a permit for the America’s Walk for Diabetes on
October 3, 1999, sponsored by The American Diabetes Association (O 529-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584

Bailey Orchard Development Limited
Authorizing the sale of real property as part of the Land Reutilization Program and
bounded by Lorain Avenue to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC (O 325-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560

Belvoir-Cliffs Apartments
Urging HUD to demolish the Belvoir-Cliffs apartment building and to grant title to the
property to the City of Cleveland for compatible neighborhood development
(R 340-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 545

Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to apply for and accept grants from the
Department of Treasury, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms for the Gang
Resistance Education and Training Program (O 183-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 553

Child Lead Poison Prevention Program
Authorizing the Director of Public Health to apply for and accept a grant from the Ohio
Department of Health for the 1999 State Child Lead Poison Prevention Program
(O 2101-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 550

City Planning Commission
Authorizing the Director of City Planning Commission to apply for and accept grant from
the George Gund Foundation, the Cleveland Foundation, and Cleveland Tomorrow for the
Cleveland Downtown Plan Implementation Studies Program (O 192-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 554
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise Zone
Agreement with Kennametal, Inc. to provide for a ten year abatement for certain
tangible personal property and real estate taxes - 18105 Cleveland Parkway
(O 191-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 554
Authorizing the Director of the City Planning Commission to apply for and accept grants
from the George Gund Foundation, the Cleveland Foundation, the Cleveland Foundation,
for the Census 2000 Complete Count Program (O 193-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 554
Authorizing the sale of real property as part of the Land Reutilization Program and
bounded by Lorain Avenue to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC (O 325-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560
Declaring the intention to vacate all that portion of Brought Court S.W.
(R 375-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 546
Determining the method of making the public improvement of constructing the Ridge Road
Transfer Station (O 318-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 558

City Year
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into contract with
City Year to perform community service work and to collaborate with various
non-profit agencies (O 260-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 557

Cleanland, Ohio
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into contract with
Parkworks, formerly Clean-land, Ohio to conduct a vacant lot maintenance program with
City residents (O 321-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

Cleveland Foundation
Authorizing the Director of City Planning Commission to apply for and accept grant from
the George Gund Foundation, the Cleveland Foundation, and Cleveland Tomorrow for the
Cleveland Downtown Plan Implementation Studies Program (O 192-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 554
Authorizing the Director of the City Planning Commission to apply for and accept grants
from the George Gund Foundation, the Cleveland Foundation, the Cleveland Foundation,
for the Census 2000 Complete Count Program (O 193-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 554

Cleveland Housing Network
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into contract with Cleveland Housing
Network to provide various customer services to low income home owners or for rental
property owners - Divisions of Water and Water Pollution Control (O 173-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 552

Cleveland Public Power
Trim trees — Cleveland Public Power Division — Utilities Department — two years
(O 1326-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 548

Cleveland Tomorrow
Authorizing the Director of City Planning Commission to apply for and accept grant from
the George Gund Foundation, the Cleveland Foundation, and Cleveland Tomorrow for the
Cleveland Downtown Plan Implementation Studies Program (O 192-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 554

Codified Ordinances
Amend Section 171.371 of Codified Ordinances — payment of costs of attracting directors
and assistants (O 1105-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 548
To amend Section 171.07 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 712-83, passed March 28, 1983, relating to longevity pay
(O 525-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583
Collective Bargaining Agreement
Approving the collective bargaining agreement
Association (O 526-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Approving the collective bargaining agreement
Local 93 (O 524-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Approving the collective bargaining agreement
(O 523-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

with
.....
with
.....
with
.....

Cleveland Police Patrolmen’s
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584
Association of Cleveland Firefighters,
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583
Ohio Nurses Association
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583

Community Development
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into contract without
competitive bidding with Compaq Computer Corporation, f.k.a. Digital Equipment Corp.
for maintenance service on Digital equipment and software (O 136-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 552
Authorizing the sale of real property as part of the Land Reutilization Program and
bounded by Lorain Avenue to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC (O 325-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560
Department of Treasury
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to apply for and accept grants from the
Department of Treasury, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms for the Gang
Resistance Education and Training Program (O 183-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 553
Economic Development Department
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise Zone
Agreement with Kennametal, Inc. to provide for a ten year abatement for certain
tangible personal property and real estate taxes - 18105 Cleveland Parkway
(O 191-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with the Center
for Employment Training - Cleveland, Inc. to partially finance an employment training
program which will offer job training and support services (O 2114-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to expand Economic Development Initiative
Grant and Title XX Grant funds for administration of the Empowerment Zone Program
as amended (O 386-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Sections 2 and 3 of Ordinance Nos. 938-97, 939-97, 1076-97 and 1181-97, passed
June 16, 1997, relating to economic development assistance contracts with various
entities (O 424-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . 554

. . . . . . . . 550

. . . . . . . . 564

. . . . . . . . 564

Empowerment Zone
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with the Center
for Employment Training - Cleveland, Inc. to partially finance an employment training
program which will offer job training and support services (O 2114-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 550
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to expand Economic Development Initiative
Grant and Title XX Grant funds for administration of the Empowerment Zone Program
as amended (O 386-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564
Enterprise Zone Agreement
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise Zone
Agreement with Kennametal, Inc. to provide for a ten year abatement for certain
tangible personal property and real estate taxes - 18105 Cleveland Parkway
(O 191-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 554
Finance Department
Approving the collective bargaining agreement
(O 523-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Approving the collective bargaining agreement
Association (O 526-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Approving the collective bargaining agreement
Local 93 (O 524-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

with
.....
with
.....
with
.....

Ohio Nurses Association
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583
Cleveland Police Patrolmen’s
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584
Association of Cleveland Firefighters,
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583

Authorizing the City of Cleveland to implement a plan to allow certain City employees to
purchase additional service credit from the Police and Fire Disability and Pension
Fund, tax-deferred by payroll deduction (O 549-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Aging to apply for and accept a grant from the Western Reserve
Area Agency on Aging for the 1999 Title III-B G.O.W./Supportive Services/Chore Worker
Program (O 178-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of City Planning Commission to apply for and accept grant from
the George Gund Foundation, the Cleveland Foundation, and Cleveland Tomorrow for the
Cleveland Downtown Plan Implementation Studies Program (O 192-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise Zone
Agreement with Kennametal, Inc. to provide for a ten year abatement for certain
tangible personal property and real estate taxes - 18105 Cleveland Parkway
(O 191-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to expand Economic Development Initiative
Grant and Title XX Grant funds for administration of the Empowerment Zone Program
as amended (O 386-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Finance to apply for and accept a grant from the State of Ohio
Office of the Governor’s Highway Safety Representative for the 1999 Traffic
Intervention Program (O 256-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Finance to apply for and accept a grant from the Board
of County Commissioners for the 1999 Second District Probation Program, o n behalf
of the Cleveland Municipal Court (O 255-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Law to apply for and accept a grant from the State of Ohio
Department of Education for the 1999 Team Approach to Violence Against Women Program
(O 410-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into a contract with
the National Junior Tennis League of Cleveland to provide a summer tennis program
(O 266-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to apply for and accept a
grant, from the Ohio Department of Education to conduct the 1999 Summer Food Program
(O 320-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into an agreement
with Neighborhood Centers Association to implement educational, recreational
and cultural programs in various school buildings (O 265-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into contract with
City Year to perform community service work and to collaborate with various
non-profit agencies (O 260-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into contract with
Salvation Army, for administrating and facilitating recreational services in Wards
10 and 11 (O 259-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Health to apply for and accept a grant from the
Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District for the 1999 Solid Waste Disposal Grant
(O 246-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of the City Planning Commission to apply for and accept grants
from the George Gund Foundation, the Cleveland Foundation, the Cleveland Foundation,
for the Census 2000 Complete Count Program (O 193-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of landfill, transfer station or material
recovery facilities for the direct haul and disposal of solid waste, for the Division
of Waste Collection and Disposal (O 317-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of various data entry services to convert
1997 and 1998 wage and tax statements from paper documents and magnetic tapes
- Division of Taxation (O 360-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of various pool chemicals, for the
Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties (O 322-99) . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the sale of real property as part of the Land Reutilization Program and
bounded by Lorain Avenue to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC (O 325-99) . . . . . . . . .
Declaring the intention to vacate all that portion of Brought Court S.W.
(R 375-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Determining the method of making the public improvement of constructing the Ridge Road
Transfer Station (O 318-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establishing salary and wage schedules for various classifications, effective as of April
1, 1999, and repealing existing ordinance 436-97, passed April 14, 1997, as amended
(O 520-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Section 171.07 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 712-83, passed March 28, 1983, relating to longevity pay
(O 525-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Sections 2 and 3 of Ordinance Nos. 938-97, 939-97, 1076-97 and 1181-97, passed
June 16, 1997, relating to economic development assistance contracts with various
entities (O 424-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1065-98, passed July 29, 1998, relating
to the procurement by requirement contract of the rental of digital multi-functional
copier/printers and analog copiers (O 172-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1744-97, passed October 20, 1997, in
conjunction with the Year 2000 project (O 521-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . 585

. . . . . . . 552

. . . . . . . 554

. . . . . . . 554

. . . . . . . 564

. . . . . . . 556

. . . . . . . 556

. . . . . . . 564

. . . . . . . 557

. . . . . . . 559

. . . . . . . 557

. . . . . . . 557

. . . . . . . 556

. . . . . . . 556

. . . . . . . 554

. . . . . . . 557

. . . . . . . 563
. . . . . . . 560
. . . . . . . 560
. . . . . . . 546
. . . . . . . 558

. . . . . . . 565

. . . . . . . 583

. . . . . . . 564

. . . . . . . 552
. . . . . . . 582

George Gund Foundation
Authorizing the Director of City Planning Commission to apply for and accept grant from
the George Gund Foundation, the Cleveland Foundation, and Cleveland Tomorrow for the
Cleveland Downtown Plan Implementation Studies Program (O 192-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 554
Authorizing the Director of the City Planning Commission to apply for and accept grants
from the George Gund Foundation, the Cleveland Foundation, the Cleveland Foundation,
for the Census 2000 Complete Count Program (O 193-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 554
Health Department
Authorizing the Director of Public Health to apply for and accept a grant from the
Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District for the 1999 Solid Waste Disposal Grant
(O 246-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 556
Authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of inmate clothing, bedding and shoes,
for the Division of Correction, Department of Public Health (O 245-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 555

Health Division
Authorizing the Director of Public Health to apply for and accept a grant from the Ohio
Department of Health for the 1999 State Child Lead Poison Prevention Program
(O 2101-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 550
House of Corrections
Authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of inmate clothing, bedding and shoes,
for the Division of Correction, Department of Public Health (O 245-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 555
Justice Center
Authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of meals for prisoners at the Police
Justice Center and district jails, for the Division of Police, Department of Public
Safety, for a period not to exceed two years (O 181-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 553
Kennametal, Inc.
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise Zone
Agreement with Kennametal, Inc. to provide for a ten year abatement for certain
tangible personal property and real estate taxes - 18105 Cleveland Parkway
(O 191-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 554
Kiosks
Informational Kiosks — develop a system — agreement with Omni Outdoor & Company Limited
Partnership — assist tourist and local residents visiting cultural and other
attractions in Cleveland’s neighborhoods and downtown (O 1143-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 533

Land Reutilization Program
Authorizing the sale of real property as part of the Land Reutilization Program and
bounded by Lorain Avenue to Bailey Orchard Development Limited, LLC (O 325-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560

Liquor Permits
Objecting to the stock transfer of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 3705 East 116th Street
(R 537-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 548
Objecting to the transfer of ownership of a C1, C2 and C3 Liquor Permit to 15601 Holmes
Avenue (R 536-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 547
Objecting to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 12301-03 Imperial
Avenue (R 534-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 546
Withdrawing objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 16420
Euclid Avenue, 1st fl, & bsmt., and repealing Res. No. 1636-98 objecting to said
transfer of ownership (R 548-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 548
March of Dimes
Consenting and approving the issuance of a permit for the March of Dimes WalkAmerica (3
or 6 miles) on April 25, 1999, sponsored by Finast, Key Bank, Meridia, MBNA, TV-19
and Q104 (O 530-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585

Mayor’s Office
Informational Kiosks — develop a system — agreement with Omni Outdoor & Company Limited
Partnership — assist tourist and local residents visiting cultural and other
attractions in Cleveland’s neighborhoods and downtown (O 1143-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 533

Merrick House
Authorizing the Director of Personnel and Human Resources to enter into contract with
Merrick House and Towards Employment, Inc. to provide services under Title II of the
Job Training Partnership Act (O 186-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 553
National Jr. Tennis League of Cleveland
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into a contract with
the National Junior Tennis League of Cleveland to provide a summer tennis program
(O 266-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 557
Neighborhood Centers Association
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into an agreement
with Neighborhood Centers Association to implement educational, recreational
and cultural programs in various school buildings (O 265-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 557
Neighborhood Leadership Cleveland
to permit parking in Willard Garage for attendees of Neighborhood Leadership Cleveland
reception on April 22, 1999 (O 532-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585

Ohio Department of Education
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to apply for and accept a
grant, from the Ohio Department of Education to conduct the 1999 Summer Food Program
(O 320-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
Ohio Motorist Safety Foundation
Consenting and approving the issuance of a permit for a City Ride 99 on June 5, 1999,
sponsored by Ohio Motorist Safety Foundation (O 528-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584
Parks Maintenance Division
Authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of de-icer, for the Division of Park
Maintenance and Properties, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(O 241-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 555
Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into contract with
Parkworks, formerly Clean-land, Ohio to conduct a vacant lot maintenance program with
City residents (O 321-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into an agreement
with Neighborhood Centers Association to implement educational, recreational
and cultural programs in various school buildings (O 265-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 557
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into contract with
City Year to perform community service work and to collaborate with various
non-profit agencies (O 260-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 557
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to apply for and accept a
grant, from the Ohio Department of Education to conduct the 1999 Summer Food Program
(O 320-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to employ one or more
physicians to provide physical examinations for children and staff attending
overnight camp during the 1999 summer season (O 242-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 555
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into a contract with
the National Junior Tennis League of Cleveland to provide a summer tennis program
(O 266-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 557
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into contract with
Salvation Army, for administrating and facilitating recreational services in Wards
10 and 11 (O 259-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 556

Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into contract with
the Cleveland Municipal Football Association to conduct a city-wide football program
(O 243-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Personnel and Human
Resources to employ one or more temporary employment agencies, to provide
professional services to supply temporary and seasonal personnel (O 185-99) . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of de-icer, for the Division of Park
Maintenance and Properties, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(O 241-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of various pool chemicals, for the
Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties (O 322-99) . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 555

. . . . . . . . . . . . 586-R

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 555
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560

Parkworks
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into contract with
Parkworks, formerly Clean-land, Ohio to conduct a vacant lot maintenance program with
City residents (O 321-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
Peddlers
Jones, Anthony - peddling in Ward 1 (O 531-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
Pensions
Authorizing the City of Cleveland to implement a plan to allow certain City employees to
purchase additional service credit from the Police and Fire Disability and Pension
Fund, tax-deferred by payroll deduction (O 549-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
Permits
Consenting and approving the issuance of a permit for a City Ride 99 on June 5, 1999,
sponsored by Ohio Motorist Safety Foundation (O 528-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consenting and approving the issuance of a permit for a WSEM’s Kilometers for Kids, on
May 16, 1999, sponsored by the West Side Ecumenical Ministry (O 527-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consenting and approving the issuance of a permit for the March of Dimes WalkAmerica (3
or 6 miles) on April 25, 1999, sponsored by Finast, Key Bank, Meridia, MBNA, TV-19
and Q104 (O 530-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consenting and approving the issuance of a permit for the America’s Walk for Diabetes on
October 3, 1999, sponsored by The American Diabetes Association (O 529-99) . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 584
. . . . . . . . . . . 584

. . . . . . . . . . . 585
. . . . . . . . . . . 584

Personnel and Human Resources Department
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with Association of Cleveland Firefighters,
Local 93 (O 524-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with Cleveland Police Patrolmen’s
Association (O 526-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with Ohio Nurses Association
(O 523-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the City of Cleveland to implement a plan to allow certain City employees to
purchase additional service credit from the Police and Fire Disability and Pension
Fund, tax-deferred by payroll deduction (O 549-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Personnel and Human Resources to accept allocations of grants
from the State of Ohio Bureau of Employment Services under Titles II and III of the
Job Training Partnership Act (O 522-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Personnel and Human Resources to enter into contract with
Merrick House and Towards Employment, Inc. to provide services under Title II of the
Job Training Partnership Act (O 186-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Personnel and Human
Resources to employ one or more temporary employment agencies, to provide
professional services to supply temporary and seasonal personnel (O 185-99) . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Section 171.07 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 712-83, passed March 28, 1983, relating to longevity pay
(O 525-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 583
. . . . . . . . . . . 584
. . . . . . . . . . . 583

. . . . . . . . . . . 585

. . . . . . . . . . . 582

. . . . . . . . . . . 553

. . . . . . . . . 586-R

. . . . . . . . . . . 583

Police Division
Authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of meals for prisoners at the Police
Justice Center and district jails, for the Division of Police, Department of Public
Safety, for a period not to exceed two years (O 181-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 553

Purchases/Contracts
Trim trees — Cleveland Public Power Division — Utilities Department — two years
(O 1326-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 548
Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Appointing an assessment equalization board to hear objections to estimated assessments
with respect to the improvements of portions of the downtown area of the City
of Cleveland (R 533-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 546
Objecting to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 1014 E. 105th
Street, fl. only (R 535-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 547
Urging HUD to demolish the Belvoir-Cliffs apartment building and to grant title to the
property to the City of Cleveland for compatible neighborhood development
(R 340-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 545
Ridge Road Transfer Station
Determining the method of making the public improvement of constructing the Ridge Road
Transfer Station (O 318-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 558
Safety Department
Authorizing the Director of Pubic Safety to apply for and accept a grant from the Criminal
Justice Services for the Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block Grant Program
(O 99-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 551
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to apply for and accept grants from the
Department of Treasury, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms for the Gang
Resistance Education and Training Program (O 183-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 553
Authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of meals for prisoners at the Police
Justice Center and district jails, for the Division of Police, Department of Public
Safety, for a period not to exceed two years (O 181-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 553
Salaries
Establishing salary and wage schedules for various classifications, effective as of April
1, 1999, and repealing existing ordinance 436-97, passed April 14, 1997, as amended
(O 520-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565
Salvation Army
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into contract with
Salvation Army, for administrating and facilitating recreational services in Wards
10 and 11 (O 259-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 556
Service Department
A portion of Old (relocated) Grayton Road - street vacation. (O 1599-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Appropriating funds obtained from Norfolk Southern; determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing railroad grade separations at Nottingham/Dille
Road and London Road (O 2183-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of landfill, transfer station or material
recovery facilities for the direct haul and disposal of solid waste, for the Division
of Waste Collection and Disposal (O 317-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Declaring the intention to vacate all that portion of Rockwell Avenue N.E.
(R 36-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Declaring the intention to vacate all that portion of Brought Court S.W.
(R 375-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Determining the method of making the public improvement of constructing the Ridge Road
Transfer Station (O 318-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 549

. . . . . . . . . . . 551

. . . . . . . . . . . 557
. . . . . . . . . . . 545
. . . . . . . . . . . 546
. . . . . . . . . . . 558

State of Ohio
Authorizing the Director of Finance to apply for and accept a grant from the State of Ohio
Office of the Governor’s Highway Safety Representative for the 1999 Traffic
Intervention Program (O 256-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 556
State of Ohio Department of Education
Authorizing the Director of Law to apply for and accept a grant from the State of Ohio
Department of Education for the 1999 Team Approach to Violence Against Women Program
(O 410-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564

Streets - Vacation
A portion of Old (relocated) Grayton Road - street vacation. (O 1599-98) . . .
Declaring the intention to vacate all that portion of Rockwell Avenue N.E.
(R 36-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Declaring the intention to vacate all that portion of Brought Court S.W.
(R 375-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 53rd Street (Ward 5) — intention to vacate portions (R 1271-98). . . . . .
Star Court, S.W. - portion - intention to vacate. (R 1616-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 549
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 545
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 546
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 545
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 545

Summer Food Program
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to apply for and accept a
grant, from the Ohio Department of Education to conduct the 1999 Summer Food Program
(O 320-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
Taxation Division
Authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of various data entry services to convert
1997 and 1998 wage and tax statements from paper documents and magnetic tapes
- Division of Taxation (O 360-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
Towards Employment, Inc.
Authorizing the Director of Personnel and Human Resources to enter into contract with
Merrick House and Towards Employment, Inc. to provide services under Title II of the
Job Training Partnership Act (O 186-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 553
Utilities Department
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into contract with Cleveland Housing
Network to provide various customer services to low income home owners or for rental
property owners - Divisions of Water and Water Pollution Control (O 173-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 552
Determining the method of making the public improvement of upgrading the heating boilers
at the Nottingham Waterworks Facility and authorizing the Director of Public
Utilities to enter into contract for the making of such improvement (O 2167-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 550
Trim trees — Cleveland Public Power Division — Utilities Department — two years
(O 1326-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 548
Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of landfill, transfer station or material
recovery facilities for the direct haul and disposal of solid waste, for the Division
of Waste Collection and Disposal (O 317-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 557
Water Division
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into contract with Cleveland Housing
Network to provide various customer services to low income home owners or for rental
property owners - Divisions of Water and Water Pollution Control (O 173-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 552
Water Pollution Control Division
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into contract with Cleveland Housing
Network to provide various customer services to low income home owners or for rental
property owners - Divisions of Water and Water Pollution Control (O 173-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 552
West Side Ecumenical Ministry
Consenting and approving the issuance of a permit for a WSEM’s Kilometers for Kids, on
May 16, 1999, sponsored by the West Side Ecumenical Ministry (O 527-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584
Western Reserve Area Agency
Authorizing the Director of Aging to apply for and accept a grant from the Western Reserve
Area Agency on Aging for the 1999 Title III-B G.O.W./Supportive Services/Chore Worker
Program (O 178-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 552
Willard Park Garage
to permit parking in Willard Garage for attendees of Neighborhood Leadership Cleveland
reception on April 22, 1999 (O 532-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
Year 2000 Project
To amend the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1744-97, passed October 20, 1997, in
conjunction with the Year 2000 project (O 521-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 582

