The City Record
O fficial Publication of the City of Cleve l a n d
August the Eighteenth, Nineteen Hundred and Ninety-Nine

Mayor
Michael R. White
President of Council
Jay Westbrook
Clerk of Council
Cecelia R. Huffman
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Odelia V. Robinson
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
William W. Patmon
Craig E. Willis
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Michael C. O’Malley
Timothy J. Melena
Jay Westbrook
Joseph J. Zone
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

RECYCLE...........................Save the Future
Printed on Recycled Paper.....Council Cares

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notices
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
41
41
44
44
45
45
45
46
46
70
70

FIRST-CLASS MAIL
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Jay Westbrook
Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ..............................................15601 Lotus Drive
44128
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
44105
Odelia V. Robinson................................3448 East 123rd Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
44115
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
44120
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
44103
William W. Patmon ...................................867 East Boulevard
44108
Craig E. Willis .........................................11906 Beulah Avenue
44106
Roosevelt Coats.........................................1775 Cliffview Road
44112
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
44105
Joe Cimperman........................................3053 West 12th Street
44113
Nelson Cintron, Jr.........................................3032 Vega Avenue
44113
Merle R. Gordon.......................................1700 Denison Avenue
44109
Michael C. O’Malley................................6710 Brookside Drive
44144
Timothy J. Melena ........................6110 West Clinton Avenue
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................10513 Clifton Boulevard
44102
Joseph J. Zone........................................3323 West 130th Street
44111
Martin J. Sweeney ................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Michael A. Dolan ..................................16519 West Park Road
44111
Clerk of Council – Cecelia R. Huffman, 216 City Hall, 664–2840.
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin.
MAYOR–Michael R. White
LaVonne Sheffield-McClain, Chief of Staff,Executive Assistant for Policy
Barry Withers, Executive Assistant for Administration
Judith Zimomra, Executive Assistant for Service
Kenneth Silliman, Executive Assistant for Economic Development
Laura Ann Williams, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
Milan T. Polacek, Executive Assistant for Legislative Affairs

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

DEPT. OF LAW – Cornell P. Carter, Director, Lessie M. Milton,
Chief Counsel, Room 106
George A. Pace, Jr., Chief Asst. Prosecutor; Criminal Branch – Justice
Center, 8th Flr., Court Towers, 1200 Ontario Street
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Martin L. Carmody, Director, Room 104; Carlean
Alford, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS – Accounts – Gayle Goodwin Smith, Commissioner, Room 19
City Treasury – Mary Christine Jackman, Treasurer, Room 115
Assessments and Licenses – Robert J. Schneider, Commissioner,
Room 122
Purchases and Supplies – William A. Moon, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – James D. Smith, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside
Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
Financial Reporting and Control – Robert Dolan, Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – Hamid Manteghi, Commissioner, 1404 E.
9th St.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael Konicek, Director, 1201 Lakeside
Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Morry Blech, Commissioner
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – Frank Schilling, Acting Chief.
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Solomon F. Balraj, Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Mark D. Vanloh, Commissioner
Burke Lakefront Airport – Michael C. Barth, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS – Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Acting
Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue.
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner,
Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Acting Commissioner,
Harvard Yards
Architecture – Paul Burik, Acting Commissioner, Room 517
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Michelle Whitlow, Acting Director, Mural
Building, 1925 St. Clair Avenue
DIVISIONS – Health – Cheri Hahn, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Environment – Robin Puriani-Rogers, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Avenue
Correction – Thomas Hardin, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Road
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY –Henry Guzm án, Director, Room 230.
DIVISIONS \ Police \ Martin L. Flask, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300
Ontario Street
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Traffic Engineering & Parking – Mark Ricchiuto, Acting Commissioner,
4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Bruce Shade, Commissioner, 1708 South
Pointe Drive
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Nicholas P. Jackson,
Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVISIONS – Convention Center & Stadium– James Glending,
Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Property Management – _______________, Commissioner, East 49th &
Harvard

Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Acting Commissioner, Public
Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Acting Commissioner,
Public Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Recreation – Michael Cox, Acting Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501
N. Marginal Road, Burke Lakefront Airport
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Linda M. Hudecek, Director,

3rd Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS – Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Donald T. Moss, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Lisa Thomas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Jeffrey K.
Patterson, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Christopher P. Warren,

Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Susan E. Axelrod, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Dennis D. Dove, Acting

Director; Mayor Michael R. White, Chairman Ex–Officio; Mary Adele
Springman, Vice–Chairman; Councilmen Michael Polensek and Edward
Rybka, City Council Representatives; Muqit Abdul Sabur, Louise Boddie,
Charles E. McBee, Larry C. Liou, John Gallo, Emmett Saunders, Mary
Jan Buckshot, Sr. Joaquina Carrion, Kathryn M. Hall, Hasan Muheisen,
Barbara S. Rosenthal, Henry Simon.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Freddie J. Fenderson,
President; Timothy J. Cosgrove, Vice President; Cynthia Sullivan,

Secretary; Margaret Hopkins, Member, Earl Preston, Member.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Michael R. White, President; Betsy
Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; __________________, Director; President of Council

Jay Westbrook.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol Johnson, Chairman;

Members; Chris Carmody, Anna Chatman, Ozell Dobbins, Tony Petkovsek,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room

516, J. F. Denk, Chairman; J. Bowes, James Williams, Alternate Members
– D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, Arthur Saunders, J.S.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Cornell P.

Carter, President; Finance Director Martin L. Carmody, Jr., Secretary;
Council President Jay Westbrook.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto;

Law Director Cornell P. Carter; Councilman Roosevelt Coats.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Cornell

P. Carter; Utilities Director Michael Konicek; Council President Jay
Westbrook.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Hunter Morrison, Director;
Anthony J. Coyne, Acting Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke,
Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean Pinkney, Rev. Edward D. Small,
Councilman Odelia V. Robinson.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Cornell P. Carter; Chairman;
Finance Director Martin L. Carmody, Jr.; Council President Jay Westbrook;
Councilman Roosevelt Coats; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman;
Donald Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond
Ossovicki, Chief Electrical Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the
Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman; Earl
S. Bumgarner, Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, _______________, Chief
Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Richard Schanfarber,
Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; Paul Burik, James Gibans, Sandra
Morgan, Hunter Morrison, Theodore Sande, Galen Schuerlein, Randall
Shorr, Councilman Craig E. Willis, Councilman Joe Cimperman, Robert
Keiser, Executive Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT JUSTICE CENTER–1200 ONTARIO
CENTRAL SCHEDULING DEPARTMENT
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Colleen C. Cooney
14A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Sean C. Gallagher
12B
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
14C
Judge Kathleen A. Keough
12C
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
13A
Judge Gerald F. Sweeney
13D
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
12A
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Linda M. DeLillo–Court Administrator,
Robert C. Townsend, II–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer,
Michelle L. Paris–Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 18, 1999

Vol. 86

No. 4471

CITY COUNCIL
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 11, 1999
The City Record
Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.25 per month
Address all communications to

CECELIA R. HUFFMAN
Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
1998-2001
MONDAY
9:30 A.M.—Public Parks, Property
&
Recreation
Committee:
Jones,
Chairman; White, Vice Chairman;
Britt, Polensek, Sweeney, Willis,
Zone.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M.—Public Service Committee:
Sweeney, Chairman;
Melena,
Vice Chairman; Britt, Cintron, Johnson, Jones, O’Malley, Patmon, Polensek.
11:00 A.M.—Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
White,
Chairman;
Cintron,
Vice
Chairman;Gordon, Johnson, Lewis,
O’Malley, Rybka.
MONDAY
2:00
P.M.—Finance
Committee:
Johnson, Chairman; Westbrook, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Gordon,
Lewis, Melena, Patmon, Robinson,
Sweeney, Willis.
TUESDAY
9:00 A.M.—Community and Economic
Development
Committee:
Jackson, Chairman; Robinson, Vice
Chairman;
Cimperman,
Cintron,
Coats,
Gordon,
Jones,
Lewis,
Rybka.
TUESDAY—Alternating
1:00 P.M.—Public Health Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Cimperman,
Vice
Chairman;
Britt,
Cintron,
Dolan, Jackson, Robinson.
1:30 P.M.—Legislation Committee:
Zone,
Chairman;
Johnson,
Vice
Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Jackson, Rybka, Westbrook.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
10:00
A.M.—Aviation
&
Transportation
Committee:
Westbrook,
Chairman; Sweeney, Vice Chairman;
Cimperman, Dolan, Lewis, Patmon,
White.
10:00 A.M.—Public Safety Committee: Coats, Chairman; Zone, Vice
Chairman; Gordon, Jackson, Jones,
Melena, O’Malley, White, Willis.
WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M.—Public Utilities Committee: Willis, Chairman; Coats, Vice
Chairman;
Britt,
Jones,
Melena,
O’Malley, Robinson, Rybka, Sweeney.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Robinson, Chairman; Cimperman, Vice Chairman; Dolan, Jackson, O’Malley, White, Willis.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________

Cleveland, Ohio
Wednesday, August 11, 1999.
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, the President, Jay
Westbrook in the Chair.
Councilmen present: Cimperman,
Cintron, Coats, Dolan, Gordon, Jackson, Jones, Lewis, Melena, O’Malley,
Patmon, Polensek, Robinson, Sweeney, Westbrook, White, Willis, Zone.
Also present were Chief of Staff
Sheffield-McClain and Directors Carmody, Konicek, Balraj, Patterson,
Warren, Axelrod and Acting Directors Whitlow, Horvath, Langhenry,
Owens, Sheperd, Dumas, Brown.
Absent: Mayor White and Directors
Carter,
Ricchiuto,
Guzman,
Jackson, Hudecek and Morrison.
The Chair dispensed with the
Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Councilman Gordon, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 1382-99.
From Cleveland Landmarks Commission re: Regular Meeting Agenda
- July 22, 1999. Received.
File No. 1383-99.
From the Office of Equal Opportunity re: MBEs/FBEs Deleted from
OEO’s Database Second Quarter,
1999. Received.
File No. 1384-99.
From the Office of Equal Opportunity re: Certified MBEs and FBEs

1627

Reporting Period:
1999. Received.

Second

Quarter,

File No. 1385-99.
From the Department of Public
Utilities re: Audit of Financial Statements
for
various
divisions.
Received.
File No. 1386-99.
From the Community Advisory
Committees re: Quarterly Regular
Update, July 21, 1999. Received.
File No. 1387-99.
From the Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals re: Public Hearing Agenda, Wednesday,
August 4, 1999. Received.
File No. 1388-99.
Prom the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency re: Public Notice No.
99-08-017. Received.
File No. 1389-99.
From the Department of Port Control re: AIP Grant Award. Received.
File No. 1390-99.
From the Division of Purchases
and Supplies re: Emergency Requisition (RE-08010). Received.
FROM THE DEPARTMENT
OF LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1391-99.
Re: New Application - 08131970010 Bolton Square Hotel Co., d.b.a. Guest
House Hotel, 9601 Euclid Avenue.
(Ward 6). Received.
File No. 1392-99.
Re: New Application - 4289576 Jime Corp., d.b.a. Shop 4 Less, 3228
West 65th Street. (Ward 17). Received.
File No. 1393-99.
Re: New Application - 9152984 Union Beverage & Deli, Inc., d.b.a.
Union Deli, 12408 Union Avenue.
(Ward 3). Received.
File No. 1394-99.
Re: New Application - 0174157 Amitel Colonial, Inc., d.b.a. Residence Inn, 527 Prospect Avenue.
(Ward 13). Received.
File No. 1395-99.
Re: New Application - 0083455 - Airport Gardens Hotel, LTD LLC, d.b.a.
Hilton Garden Inn, 4900 Emerald Court
S.W. (Ward 20). Received.
File No. 1396-99.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 7638494 - Sarry, Inc., 466
East 125th Street, first floor and
basement. (Ward 10). Received.
File No. 1397-99.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - Dalal, Inc., d.b.a. Corner
Store, 3175 West 84th Street, first
floor. (Ward 18). Received.

The City Record

4
File No. 1398-99.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 0000437 - A. Avancini, Inc.,
3258 West 32nd Street, first floor
and basement. (Ward 14). Received.
File No. 1399-99.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 9055615 - Thirteen Thousand
Lorain Inc., d.b.a. Cornerstone Café,
13000 Lorain Avenue. (Ward 19).
Received.
File No. 1400-99.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 4509529 - Kathie A Needham,
Inc., 2136 Broadview Road, first
floor and basement. (Ward 15).
Received.
File No. 1401-99.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 0300140 - Aspinwall Market,
Inc., d.b.a. Ten Market, 831 East
140th Street. (Ward 10). Received.
File No. 1402-99.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 4470950 - Kann, Inc., 2523
Market Street, first floor, basement
and patio. (Ward 14). Received.
File No. 1403-99.
Re: Stock Transfer Application 5235615 - Little Eagle, Inc. dba Little Eagle, 3111 East 93rd Street.
(Ward 4). Received.
File No. 1404-99.
From the Ohio Division of Liquor
Control re: Proposed relocation of
liquor agency contract. (Ward 7).
Received.
File No. 1405-99.
From the Ohio Division of Liquor
Control re: Proposed assignment of
liquor agency contract. (Ward 12).
Received.
STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTED

File No. 1407-99.
From the Department of Port Control re: Contract No. Group “O” 53199, Residential Sound Insulation.
Received.
File No. 1408-99.
From the Department Public Utilities re: Contract No. 53206 A & B,
Nerone
&
Sons,
completed
and
accepted April 18, 1999. Received.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 500-98-A.
August 11, 1999
To the Honorable Council of the
City of Cleveland City Council
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Report of the Mayor’s Appointment Committee’s consideration of
the Mayor’s Appointments to the
Community Relations Board.
We have before us the Mayor’s
Letter of March 16, 1998, wherein he
names his appointment to the Community Relations Board:

Appointment
recommends

Roosevelt Coats, Chairman
Joseph J. Zone
Odelia V. Robinson
Martin J. Sweeney
Patricia J. Britt
Received. Without objection Appointment approved. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
File No. 1198-99-A.
August 11, 1999
To the Honorable Council of the
City of Cleveland City Council
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Report of the Mayor’s Appointments Committee’s consideration of
the Mayor’s Appointments to the
Community Relations Board.
We have before us the Mayor’s
Letter of May 27, 1999, wherein he
names his appointment to the Community Relations Board:
Edna Fuentes
Expires on March 31, 2003
The Mayor’s Appointment Committee
hereby
recommends
that
Council approve the appointment as
stated above.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee
Roosevelt Coats, Chairman
Joseph J. Zone
Odelia V. Robinson
Martin J. Sweeney
Patricia J. Britt
Received. Without objection Appointment approved. Yeas 18. Nays 0.

August 11, 1999
To the Honorable Council of the
City of Cleveland City Council
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Report of the Mayor’s Appointment Committee’s consideration of
the Mayor’s Appointments to the
Community Relations Board.
We have before us the Mayor’s
Letter of May 27, 1999, wherein he
names his appointment to the Community Relations Board:
Jane Buckshot
Expires on March 31, 2003
The Mayor’s Appointment Committee
hereby
recommends
that
Council approve the appointment as
stated above.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee
Roosevelt Coats, Chairman
Joseph J. Zone
Odelia V. Robinson
Martin J. Sweeney
Patricia J. Britt
Received. Without objection Appointment approved. Yeas 18. Nays 0.

Comthat

August 11, 1999

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Report of the Mayor’s Appointment Committee’s consideration of

1628

the Mayor’s Appointments to the
Fair Housing Review Board.
We have before us the Mayor’s
Letter of May 27, 1999, wherein he
names his appointment to the Fair
Housing Review Board:
John Nolan
Expires on March 1, 2001
The Mayor’s Appointment Committee
hereby
recommends
that
Council approve the appointment as
stated above.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee
Roosevelt Coats, Chairman
Joseph J. Zone
Odelia V. Robinson
Martin J. Sweeney
Patricia J. Britt
Received. Without objection Appointment approved. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
CONDOLENCES RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1488-99—Adger Greene.
Res. No. 1489-99—George Addison
Paul, Sr.
Res. No. 1490-99—George A. Paul,
Sr.
Res. No. 1491-99—Joseph Franklin
Bell.
Res. No. 1492-99—Nathaniel Wilson, Sr.
Res. No. 1493-99—Roman F. Gruber.
Res. No. 1494-99—Theopolis “Buster”
Stewart.
Res. No. 1495-99—Darnell Oliver, Jr.
Res. No. 1496-99—Milton Slocum, Sr.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1497-99—May Dugan Center.
Res. No. 1498-99—Pastor Merita D.
White.
Res. No. 1499-99—Iris Jones.
Res. No. 1500-99—Elder Thomas A.
Minor.
Res. No. 1501-99—Forest City Park
Civic Association.
Res. No. 1502-99—Polish American
Congress, Ohio Division.
Res. No. 1503-99—Vaclav and Miloslava Hyvnar.
Res.
No.
1504-99—Annunciation
Catholic Church.
Res. No. 1505-99—Detective Joseph
Masilonis.
Res. No. 1506-99—Detective Robert
Kuenzil.
Res. No. 1507-99—Luceille Fleming.
Res. No. 1508-99—Lillian Karina
Goldsby.
Res. No. 1509-99—Concord Baptist
Church — 25th Anniversary.
Res. No. 1510-99—Jarrett-RobinsonTerrell Family Reunion.
Res. No. 1511-99—Mt. Zion Congregational Church — 135th Anniversary.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS

File No. 1205-99-A.

To the Honorable Council of the
City of Cleveland City Council

Kathryn Hall
Expires on March 31, 2002
Mayor’s
hereby

Mayor’s Appointment Committee

File No. 1201-99-A.

File No. 1406-99.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties re: Contract No. 54231, Maplewood Ball Diamond Complex Fence Improvements.
Received.

The
mittee

Council approve the appointment as
stated above.

August 18, 1999

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1512-99—Mexican Baseball
Hall of Fame.
Res. No. 1513-99—Saturnaino Orestes Arrieta Armas “Minnie” Minoso.

August 18, 1999
Res. No. 1514-99—Clifford Johnson,
Jr.
Res. No. 1515-99—Negro League
Baseball Players Association.
Res. No. 1516-99—Stanley Glenn.
Res. No. 1517-99—Bobby Avila.
Res. No. 1518-99—Vic Power.
Res. No. 1519-99—Robert F. Busbey.
Res. No. 1520-99—Father Vincent
Caruso, O.de M.
WELCOME RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1521-99—Miguel Hernandez Agosto.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1409-99.
By Councilman O’Malley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the submission to
the electors of the City of Cleveland
of a proposal to amend Section 26 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland
relating to the qualifications of
Council members.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
and safety in that it must be certified
to
the
election
authorities
immediately for the question to
appear at the general election to be
held on November 2, 1999, and providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department, now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council of the
City of Cleveland hereby authorizes
and directs the submission to the
electors of the City of Cleveland at
the general election to be held at
the usual places of voting of said
City on Tuesday, November 2, 1999,
of a proposal to amend Section 26 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland
to read as follows:
Section 26. Qualifications of Council Members.
Members of Council shall be residents of the City and shall have
resided in their respective wards for
at least one year next preceding
their election and shall have the
qualifications of electors therein.
Members of Council shall not hold
any other public office or employment except that of notary public or
member of State militia, and shall
not be interested in the profits or
emoluments of any contract job,
work or service of the Municipality.
Any member who shall cease to possess any of the qualifications herein required, or removes from their
ward for reason other than reapportionment, shall forthwith forfeit his
office, and such contract in which
any member is or may become interested may be declared void by the
Council. No member of the Council
shall, except in so far as necessary
in the performance of the duties of
his office, directly or indirectly
interfere in the conduct of the
administrative department, or directly or indirectly take any part in the
appointment, promotion or dismissal
of any officer, or employee in the
service of the City other than the
officers or employees of Council.
Section 2. That the foregoing proposed amendment, upon receiving at
least a majority of the votes cast
thereon at the November 2, 1999 gen-

The City Record
eral election shall become effective
immediately upon its adoption.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized and directed to forward a certified copy of
this ordinance to the Board of Elections of Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the Board of Elections of Cuyahoga County shall
cause an appropriate notice to be
duly given of the election to be held
on November 2, 1999 on the foregoing amendment to the Charter of
this City and otherwise to provide
for such election in the manner provided by the general laws of the
State of Ohio.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized and directed to cause the full text of such proposed Charter amendment to be published once a week for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper published in the City of Cleveland, with
the first publication to be made at
least fifteen (15) days prior to the
general election to be held on
November 2, 1999, as provided in
Article XVIII, Section 9, of the Constitution of the State of Ohio, Section 731.211 of the Ohio Revised
Code and Section 200 of the Charter
of the City of Cleveland.
Section 6. That the ballot submitting the question of the adoption of
the aforesaid amendment shall read
as follows:
PROPOSED CHARTER AMENDMENT
CITY OF CLEVELAND
A majority affirmative vote is necessary for passage.
Charter Section 26 permits members of Council to reside anywhere
in the City of Cleveland. It requires,
however, that if residing in their
ward at the time of election, the
member is removed from office if
they remove themselves from the
ward. Shall Section 26 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland be
amended to require: members of
Council reside in the City of Cleveland;
reside
in
their
respective
wards; and that they must reside in
their respective ward for at least
one
year
immediately
preceding
their election?
Section 7. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred
to
Director
of
Law;
Committees on Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1410-99.
By Councilmen Polensek, Willis,
Robinson and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of remediating
erosion affecting water facilities in
portions of the Euclid Creek Reservation,
including
repairing
and
maintaining affected water mains,
and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into contract for
the making of such improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City

1629

5
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of remediating erosion affecting water facilities in portions of
the
Euclid
Creek
Reservation,
including repairing and maintaining
affected water mains, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, by contract duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding for a gross price for
the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to enter into contract for the making of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
said improvement may be treated as
a separate improvement, and each,
or any combination, of such trades
or components may be the subject of
a separate contract for a gross
price. Upon request of said director
the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule of unit prices, including profit and overhead, for all
items constituting units of said
improvement.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 52 SF
225, Request No. 14039.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1411-99.
By Councilmen Britt, Sweeney,
Cintron, Cimperman, Dolan, Jackson, Jones, Lewis, Melena, O’Malley,
Polensek,
Robinson
Westbrook,
White, Willis and Zone.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 535.051 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1524-95
passed January 29, 1996, relating to
additional
eligibility
for
special
Homestead rates.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 535.051 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1524-95, passed January 29, 1996, is hereby amended to
read as follows:
Section 535.051 Additional Eligibility for Special Homestead Rates
(a) In addition to those homesteads eligible for the special homestead rates prescribed by division
(f) of Section 535.04, and divisions
(f)(1), (f)(2), and (f)(3) of Section
535.05, homesteads owned by a person sixty-five years of age or older
or permanently and totally disabled
whose total annual income does not
exceed Twenty Three Thousand Dollars ($23,000.00) may be eligible for
the special homestead rate established for the service district in
which the homestead is located pur-

The City Record

6
suant to Sections 535.04 and 535.05
of these codified ordinances.
(b) The Director of Public Utilities shall prescribe the application
form for the homestead rate and
have final approval of all applications.
Section 2. That existing Section
535.051 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1524-95, passed
January 29, 1996, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on
Public
Utilities,
Legislation.
Finance.
Ord. No. 1412-99.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Sections 510.01 to 510.17 and
510.99 thereof, relating to Right-ofWay Permits.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
holds the rights-of-way of the City
in trust for the citizens of the City;
and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland is
vitally concerned with the use of the
rights-of-way in the City as a valuable and limited resource which
must be maintained and protected
for the public use in a safe and efficient manner, and managed to promote the public health, safety, and
welfare,
including
the
economic
development of the City; and
Whereas, changes in the public
utility, communications and other
industries
have
increased
the
demand and need for access to the
right-of-way and placement of facilities and structures in the right-ofway; and
Whereas, it is necessary to appropriately administer the impact of
access to the right-of-way to promote efficiency, discourage uneconomic
duplication
of
facilities,
lessen the public inconvenience arising out of uncoordinated work in
the right-of-way, and promote public
safety and welfare; and
Whereas, the City has the authority under the laws and Constitution
of the State of Ohio, including Article 18, Sections 3 and 4, to exercise
powers of local self-government,
exercise police power and to regulate the impact of use of the rightof-way within its municipal boundaries; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by adding new
Sections 510.01 to 510.17 and 510.99
thereof and to read, respectively, as
follows:
CHAPTER 510
RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMITS
Section 510.01 Definitions
As used in this Chapter:
(a) “Applicant” means any person
applying for a Right-of-Way Permit.

(b) “Best efforts” means the best
reasonable, commercially practicable efforts under the circumstances,
taking into consideration, among
other appropriate matters, all applicable laws, regulations, technology,
human resources and cost.
(c) “Director” means the Director
of Public Service or the Director's
designee, unless otherwise stated in
this chapter.
(d) “Force Majeure” means a
strike, boycott, labor dispute, embargo, act of nature, act of public
enemy, order of any kind of government of the United States or of
the State of Ohio or any of their
departments, agencies, or political
subdivisions; riot, epidemic, landslides, lightning, earthquake, fire,
tornado, storm, flood, sabotage, civil
disturbance, explosion, or any other
cause or event not reasonably within the control of the party disabled
by the Force Majeure, but only to
the extent that the disabled party
notified the other party as soon as
practicable
regarding
the
Force
Majeure and then for only so long
as and to the extent that the Force
Majeure prevents compliance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(e) “Franchise Agreement” means
a
written
franchise
agreement
entered into by the City pursuant to
the Charter of the City of Cleveland
and accepted by any person, pursuant to which such person may
operate or provide natural gas, electric, cable television, communication
or other utility services to consumers within the City.
(f) “General Right-of-Way Permit”
shall have the meaning set forth in
division (b)(1) of Section 510.03.
(g)
“Governmental
Function”
means a function of the City which
is classified as governmental under
Ohio law, and shall include, but not
be limited to: (i) the provision of
street lighting, (ii) the provision of
sewer utility service, and (iii) the
provision of any other City utility
service to the extent such other City
utility service is provided to Cityowned facilities.
(h) “Gross Revenues” means a reasonable estimation of all cash, credit, property of any kind or nature,
or
other
consideration
received
directly or indirectly by a permittee
arising from or attributable to the
sale or exchange of services within
the City in any way derived from
the operation of its facilities in or
use of the rights-of-way; provided,
however,
that
“Gross
Revenues”
does not include revenues arising
from services which, in the case of
telecommunications services, neither
terminate or originate within the
City, or in the case of all other services, are not consumed or used
within the City.
(i) “Permittee” means any person
issued a Right-of-Way Permit pursuant to this chapter to use or occupy all or a portion of the right-ofway in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the Rightof-Way Permit.
(j) “Person” means any natural
person or any association, firm, partnership, joint venture, corporation,
or other legally recognized entity,
whether for-profit or not-for-profit.
(k) “Proprietary Function” means
a function of the City which is not
classified as a governmental function.
(l) “Public Property” means any
real property and personal property
owned by the City or easements held
or used by the City, other than a
right-of-way.

1630

August 18, 1999
(m) “PUCO” means the Public
Utilities Commission of Ohio.
(n) “Residential Purposes” means
residential use of the right-of-way,
including such uses as mailboxes,
trees, decorative purposes or any
curb cuts and driveways, and as
may be further defined in the Rules
and Regulations.
(o) “Right-of-Way” and “Rights-ofWay” mean the surface of and the
space above and below the paved or
unpaved portions of any public
street, public road, public highway,
public freeway, public lane, public
path, public way, public alley, public court, public sidewalk, public
boulevard, public parkway, public
drive, and any other land used in a
manner so as to be the functional
equivalent of the foregoing if designated by the Director for the
same, now or hereafter held by the
City.
“Right-of-Way”
shall
not
include public property, except to
the extent the use or occupation is
specifically granted in a Right-ofWay Permit, or private easements.
(p) “Right-of-Way Permit“ means
the non-exclusive grant of a General or Special Right-of-Way Permit to
use or occupy all or a portion of the
right-of-way granted pursuant to
this chapter.
(q) “Right-of-Way Related Costs”
means the total costs to the City of
managing,
maintaining,
planning
and administering the right-of-way
relating to the use of the right-ofway by permittees, including any
costs of joint planning, enforcement
of this chapter, and related costs
and overhead, including but not limited to an appropriate allocation of
the costs of any geographic information systems utilized by the City.
(r)
“Rules
and
Regulations”
means any rule or regulation adopted by the Director pursuant to division (d) of Section 510.02, for the
purpose of carrying out the purpose
and intent of this chapter.
(s) “Street Opening Permit” means
a permit to open or excavate the
right-of-way,
issued
pursuant
to
Chapter 503 of the Codified Ordinances.
(t) “Special Right-of-Way Permit”
shall have the meaning set forth in
division (b)(2) of Section 510.03.
Section 510.02 Purpose and Scope
of Chapter
(a) The purpose of this chapter is
to provide for the management and
administration of the use or occupation of the rights-of-way within
the City to further the policies of
the City delineated in division (e)
of
this
section,
including
the
issuance of Right-of-Way Permits to
persons for such use or occupancy.
(b) A Right-of-Way Permit issued
pursuant to this chapter does not
relieve the permittee of any obligation to obtain a franchise, license,
encroachment permit, street opening
permit or other permit which may
be additionally required by the City,
including any required by the following Chapters of the Codified
Ordinances:
(1) Chapter 503 relating to street
openings and maintenance.
(2) Chapter 508 relating to sidewalk occupancy for vendors in the
Central Business District.
(3) Chapter 523 relating to electrical poles.
(4) Chapter 670B relating to pay
telephones.
(5) Chapter 675 relating to peddlers and produce dealers.
(6) Chapter 680 relating to newspaper boxes.

August 18, 1999
(7) Chapter 3105 relating to building permits.
(8)
Chapter
3109
relating
to
encroachments.
(9) Chapter 3123 relating to tent
permits.
(c) Nothing in this chapter shall
relieve permittee from permittee’s
obligation to comply with all applicable federal, state and City laws,
including the obligation to obtain
any and all applicable licenses, permits or other authorizations necessary to the operation and conduct of
its business or the occupation or use
of the right-of-way. In the event of
a conflict between the provisions of
this chapter and other provisions
contained in the Codified Ordinances, the provisions of this chapter shall govern. Should there be a
direct conflict between the provisions in this chapter and the provisions contained in a franchise agreement, the provisions of the franchise
agreement shall prevail; provided,
however, that additional obligations
shall not be construed as a conflict.
(d)
The
Director
is
hereby
charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter and is
hereby authorized to adopt, promulgate and enforce Rules and Regulations relating to any matter or
thing pertaining to use or occupation of the right-of-way and the
administration and enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter. Such
Rules and Regulations shall become
effective upon publication in the
City Record. Failure or refusal to
comply with any such Rules and
Regulations shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
(e) The City’s management and
administration of the use and occupation of the rights-of-way within
the City is necessary:
(1) To preserve the right-of-way
for the public health, safety, and
welfare and to promote economic
development in the City.
(2) To preserve the availability of
a wide range of utility, communications, and other services, including
the rapid deployment of new technologies and innovative services to
the City’s residents and taxpayers at
a reasonable cost.
(3) To promote cooperation among
permittees and the City in the use
or occupation of the right-of-way, to
minimize public inconvenience during right-of-way work, and to eliminate
wasteful,
unnecessary
or
unsightly duplication of facilities.
(4) To promote public safety and
welfare and to preserve the rightsof-way.
(5) To ensure adequate public
compensation for managing, administering
and
responding
to
the
impacts resulting from the use of
the right-of-way by the permittees.
(6) To promote and require reasonable accommodation of occupation or use of the right-of-way.
(7) To assure that applicants have
the financial, technical, and managerial resources to comply with
this chapter and the provisions of
any
Right-of-Way
Permit
issued
under this chapter. For purposes of
this chapter, an applicant possessing a valid certification from the
PUCO for the services to be provided by the facilities subject to this
chapter shall be presumed to possess the requisite financial, technical,
and
managerial
resources,
absent clear and convincing evidence to the contrary.
(e)
Any
Right-of-Way
Permit
granted under this chapter shall be
non-exclusive. No property right of

The City Record
any nature or power of eminent
domain shall be created by the
granting of a permit under this
chapter.
(f) This chapter shall not apply
to structures and facilities owned or
operated as governmental functions
by the City which occupy or use the
right-of-way.
Any
governmental
function of the City utilizing the
right-of-way shall carry out its operations in a manner consistent with
the policies set forth in this chapter,
including
participation
and
cooperation in joint planning under
this chapter and identification of
structures and facilities located in
the right-of-way.
Section 510.03 Permit Required
(a) No person shall use, occupy,
construct, own or operate structures
or facilities in, under, or above any
right-of-way within the City unless
the person first obtains a Right-ofWay Permit and conforms to the
requirements set forth in such permit and in this chapter.
(b) The following types of Rightof-Way Permits may be issued by
the
Director
for
the
following
terms:
(1) General Right-of-Way Permit
A Right-of-Way Permit granted to a
person to use or occupy the right-ofway, whether above ground, at the
surface or underground, for facilities for business purposes including,
but not limited to, the provision of
utility, cable television, communications, transportation, or other services to the City, its residents and
taxpayers. The term of a General
Right-of-Way Permit shall be ten
(10) years from the date of issuance,
or such lesser term as the applicant
may request.
(2) Special Right-of-Way Permit A
Right-of-Way Permit granted to a
person for a specific, limited use or
occupation of the right-of-way or a
specific portion of the right-of-way.
A Special Right-of-Way Permit shall
not be available to any person for
use of more than one quarter (1/4)
mile
of
right-of-way.
A
Special
Right-of-Way Permit may be granted for use of any amount of the
right-of-way to agencies, departments and divisions of the United
States, the State of Ohio and political subdivisions of the State of Ohio
other than the City.
A. Regular Special Right-of-Way
Permit The term of a Regular Special Right-of-Way Permit shall be
three (3) years from the date of
issuance, or such lesser term as the
applicant shall request.
B. Temporary Special Right-ofWay Permit The term of a Temporary Special Right-of-Way Permit
shall be thirty (30) days from the
date of issuance, or such lesser term
as the applicant may request.
(c) Each Right-of-Way Permit
shall specify the purpose for which
it is issued and shall contain such
other terms and conditions as are
required by this chapter, the Rules
and Regulations, and as deemed
appropriate by the Director.
Section 510.04 Exemptions
No Right-of-Way Permit shall be
required for the following uses:
(a)
Residential
Purposes,
as
defined by this chapter.
(b) Sidewalk occupancy permits
for vendors in the Central Business
District issued pursuant to Chapter
508 of the Codified Ordinances.
(c) Placement of pay telephones
pursuant to Chapter 670B of the Codified Ordinances.

1631

7
(d) Permits for peddlers and produce dealers pursuant to Chapter
675 of the Codified Ordinances.
(e) Placement of newspaper dispensing devises pursuant to Chapter
680 of the Codified Ordinances.
(f) Tent permits issued pursuant
to Chapter 3123 of the Codified Ordinances.
(g) Street opening permits issued
pursuant to Chapter 503 of the Codified Ordinances.
(h) Bus shelter permits authorized
by ordinance passed by City Council.
(i) Encroachment permits authorized by ordinance passed by City
Council.
(j) Governmental functions of the
City.
Section 510.05 Application Procedure
(a) An application for a Right-ofWay Permit, or an amendment or
renewal of an existing permit, shall
be filed in the form and manner
prescribed by the Director, and
shall include the following information, as applicable, and such
other information required by the
Director:
(1) The applicant’s name, address,
telephone number, and federal tax
identification number or Social Security number.
(2) The name, address, and telephone number of the person on
whom a notice, order or service of
process may be served on behalf of
the applicant.
(3) The name, address, and telephone number of a 24-hour emergency contact for the applicant.
(4) Information regarding the
applicant’s
financial,
managerial
and technical ability to fulfill its
obligations under this chapter or a
valid certificate of convenience and
necessity or the equivalent thereof
from the PUCO for the services to
be provided by the facilities covered
by the permit.
(b) In addition to the information
supplied pursuant to division (a) of
this section, an applicant for a General Right-of-Way Permit shall supply the following information for
any installation anticipated to be
installed within six (6) months of
the application for the permit and
an applicant for a Special Right-ofWay Permit shall supply the following information for the installation for which the permit is sought:
(1) Drawings, plans, and specifications, submitted on paper or in
electronic format compatible with
the City’s Geographic Information
System (“GIS”), or in an alternative
format acceptable to the Director, in
sufficient detail to demonstrate:
A. The location of each proposed
component of the applicant’s installation including the location, size,
and depth of each conduit, duct,
duct bank, or the location of cable
within leased conduit space, the
location of each pole, pole attachment, and the route of each overhead cable, and the size and location of any other installations proposed by the applicant. Maps submitted on paper shall use a scale of
not less than 1" = 200'.
B. The location and route of any
facilities to be installed on existing
utility poles.
C. The location and route of any
facilities to be located under the
surface of the ground, including the
line and grade proposed for the burial at all points, as well as the location of all existing underground
utilities,
conduit,
ducts,
pipes,

8
mains, and installations within ten
(10) feet of the proposed installation.
D. The location and position of
any facilities to be located on the
surface of the right-of-way.
E. The construction methods to be
employed for the protection of existing structures, fixtures, and facilities within or adjacent to the rightof-way.
F. The location, dimension, and
types of trees within or adjacent to
the right-of-way, together with a
plan
for
protecting,
trimming,
removing, replacing, and restoring
any trees to be disturbed.
G. A certificate from a registered
professional engineer, stating that
the drawings, plans, and specifications comply with all applicable
technical codes, rules and regulations
unless
such
certificate
is
waived in writing by the Director.
Section 510.06 Criteria for Permit
Issuance; Transfers
(a) A Right-of-Way Permit shall
be granted to an applicant upon a
determination that:
(1) The application is complete
and in compliance with this chapter
and the Rules and Regulations.
(2) The issuance of the permit
will be consistent with the policy of
the City as set forth in Section
510.02.
(3) The applicant is not delinquent on any taxes or other obligations to the City and has the requisite financial, managerial and technical ability to fulfill its obligations
under this chapter.
(4) The permittee furnishes a certificate of liability insurance in the
amount of One Million ($1,000,000.00)
or such other reasonable amount as
the Director may determine. The certificate shall name the City as an
additional insured on the policy. In
the alternative, a permittee with net
capitalization of Ten Million Dollars
($10,000,000.00) or more may apply
to the Director, in the manner prescribed in the Rules and Regulations, for the Director’s approval to
self-insure.
(b) The Director shall determine
if the application is complete within thirty (30) days after its receipt.
If incomplete, the Director may
request
additional
information.
After receiving a complete application, the Director shall circulate the
application to the Director of Public
Utilities, the Director of Public Safety, and the Director of Finance, or
their designees, who shall have thirty (30) additional days to provide
comment to the Director of Public
Service, including recommendations
as to whether the permit should be
granted and upon what terms and
conditions.
(c) The Director of Public Service,
within sixty (60) days after receipt
of the complete application, shall
issue or deny the permit. A denial
shall be accompanied by a statement of the applicant’s right to
appeal, pursuant to Section 510.12.
(d) Right-of-Way Permits and the
rights of a permittee are not transferable without the prior written
approval of the Director following
written request by the permittee.
The request shall set forth the information required in Section 510.05,
including evidence that the proposed
transferee has the financial, technical, and managerial resources to
comply with the obligations of this
chapter and the Right-of-Way Permit. The request shall be granted if
the request is complete and the

The City Record
transferee has demonstrated sufficient financial resources. In making
this determination, a proposed transferee shall be presumed to possess
the requisite financial, technical,
and managerial resources if the
transferee possesses a valid certification from the PUCO for the services to be provided by the facilities
subject to this chapter, unless otherwise shown by clear and convincing evidence. Transfer to affiliates
under common ownership and control of the permittee shall not
require formal approval, so long as
the Director is provided with thirty
(30) days’ prior written notice of the
proposed transfer.
Section 510.07 Obligations of Permittees
(a) In addition to the other
requirements set forth in this chapter and in the Rules and Regulations, each permittee shall:
(1) Within six (6) months of the
issuance of permittee’s initial a General Right-of-Way Permit, or such
additional time as may be granted
by the Director in response to a
written request from the permittee
detailing the need for additional
time,
supply
the
information
detailed in division (b) of Section
510.05 for all existing facilities
owned by permittee within the
right-of-way in the manner prescribed in the Rules and Regulations.
(2) Supply the information detailed in division (b) of Section
510.05 for all new facilities which
are owned by permittee and are constructed or installed in the right-ofway during the term of the General
Right-of-Way Permit, either at the
time of applying for a street opening permit pursuant to Chapter 503
of the Codified Ordinances for such
construction or installation or within thirty (30) days of the completion
of the construction or installation of
such new facilities in the manner
prescribed in the Rules and Regulations.
(3) Use best efforts to cooperate
with the City and other permittees
to achieve the most efficient, aesthetic, and least obtrusive use of the
right-of-way, consistent with safety,
engineering and business practices
and to minimize excavations and
other disruptions of traffic.
(4) Participate in joint planning,
construction, and advance notification of scheduled right-of-way work,
as may be required by the Rules
and Regulations, or as may be
requested by the Director. Joint
planning
shall
not
require
the
exchange or provision of trade
secrets or competitively sensitive
materials or information.
(5) Reasonably cooperate with
other permittees in utilization of,
construction in, and occupancy of
private rights-of-way or easements
within the City, but only to the
extent the same is consistent with
the grant thereof, and is not unduly burdensome to any property
owner or to the permittee. Nothing
in this division (a)(5) shall be construed to require the expenditure of
funds or rearrangement of facilities
by a permittee without fair compensation.
(6) Upon reasonable notice of not
less than sixty (60) days, or less in
the case of an emergency threatening the public health, safety or welfare, and at the direction of the
Director, at the permittee’s sole cost,
promptly
remove,
relocate,
rearrange or reconfigure facilities

1632

August 18, 1999
as necessary: (i) during any construction, repair or modification of
any street, sidewalk or other public
improvement by the City; (ii) to
accommodate a determination by the
Director that facilities should be
located underground or occupy only
one side of a right-of-way but only
to the extent such determination is
consistent with applicable law, reasonable, commercially practicable,
and a part of an overall improvement or beautification plan or project; (iii) if an additional or subsequent governmental or other public
use of the right-of-way is inconsistent with the then-current uses of
such permittee; or (iv) for any other
lawful cause.
(7) Cooperate with the City in any
emergencies involving the right-ofway.
(8) No later than January 1, 2002,
place tags using distinct identification on all structures and facilities
in the right-of-way in accordance
with applicable Rules and Regulations.
(b) A permittee shall perform all
work, construction, maintenance or
removal of structures and facilities
within the right-of-way, including
tree trimming, in accordance with
good engineering and construction
practice, in conformity with all
applicable laws, codes and regulations, including, but not limited to,
applicable safety codes. A permittee
shall repair or replace any street,
curb, or other portion of the rightof-way in a manner conforming to
the standards set forth in the Rules
and Regulations. Such standards
shall require permittees to restore
affected portions of the right-of-way
to a condition not less than materially equivalent to its condition prior
to such work and in a manner which
minimizes any inconvenience to the
public, the City and other permittees.
(c) As a condition of issuance of
a General Right-of-Way Permit, all
persons holding such a permit are
encouraged to overbuild the installation of ducts and conduit in the
right-of-way and to make the overbuilt facilities available to the City
or third parties upon request at a
reasonable rental charge and on a
nondiscriminatory basis. The use or
occupation of the right-of-way by
any person using the overbuild facilities shall be governed by the provisions of this chapter.
(d) In the event it is necessary to
move, remove, relocate or reconfigure temporarily any of the permittee’s wires, cables, poles, or other
above-ground facilities in the rightof-way, in order to move a large
object, vehicle, building or other
structure over the streets of the
City, permittee shall, on 30 days’
written notice by the Director, and
at the expense of the person requesting the temporary removal or relocation of such facilities, comply
with the Director’s notice, provided
that the permittee’s expense has
been reasonably secured by the person so requesting.
Section 510.08 Permit Fees; Auditing
(a) The following fees represent
a reasonable allocation of Right-ofWay Related Costs, and shall be
paid by each applicant or permittee,
whether for an initial permit, or for
a renewal, to the Director as a permit fee:
(1)
For
Special
Right-of-Way
Permits, the fee shall be One Hundred Dollars ($100) per surface

August 18, 1999
location, plus Two Hundred Dollars ($200) per sheet for maps submitted in electronic GIS compatible
format, or Five Hundred Dollars
($500) per sheet for maps submitted on paper.
(2) A. For General Right-of-Way
Permits, permittee shall pay an
annual fee, for each calendar year
based upon either:
1. the miles of right-of-way which
the permittee occupies and desires
to occupy in said calendar year as
follows:
a. for the first mile, or any part
thereof, (0-1) . . . . . . . . . $15,000.00;
b. plus, for the next nine (9)
miles, or any part thereof (1-10), an
additional . . . . . . . . . . . $11,250.00;
c. plus, for the next ninety (90)
miles, or any part thereof (11-100),
an additional . . . . . . . . . . $30,000.00;
d. plus, for the next four hundred
(400) miles, or any part thereof (101500), an additional . . . . . . $93,750.00;
e. plus, for all uses over five
hundred (500) miles, an additional . . . . . . . . . . . $150,000.00; or
2. one percent (1%) of the permittee’s gross revenues for the prior
calendar year.
B. Each permittee electing to pay
the fee based upon the number of
miles in the right-of-way as provided in division (a)(2)A.1. of this section, shall make quarterly payments
to be made on or before March 31,
June 30, September 30 and December
31 of the calendar year.
C. Each permittee electing to pay
the fee based upon a percentage of
permittee’s gross revenues as provided in division (a)(2)A.2. of this
section, shall make estimated quarterly payments to be made on or
before the same dates identified in
division (a)(2)B. of this section,
based upon the permittee’s gross
revenues for the corresponding quarter for accompanied by a statement
of an independent certified public
accountant attesting to the reasonableness of the methodology used
for the estimation of the gross revenues upon which the payment was
based.
D. Each permittee shall, at its sole
option, at the time permittee’s first
payment is due for permittee’s first
payment, and thereafter for each
renewal, elect in writing on of the
fee options contained in division
(a)(2)A. of this section. Such election shall not be changed for the
balance of the term of said permittee’s permit.
E. Each General Right-of-Way
Permittee
shall
maintain
books,
records, maps, documents and other
evidence directly pertinent to its
calculation of payments to the City.
The
Director,
the
Director
of
Finance or either’s designee shall
have
reasonable
access
to
any
books, records, maps, documents
and other evidence for inspection,
copying and audit to the extent necessary to assure that the payments
to be made pursuant to this section
are accurate and that all right-ofway permittees fully comply with
the provisions of this chapter and
their respective Right-of-Way Permits.
F. The fees specified in division
(a)(2)A. of this section may be
increased by the Director, subject to
approval by the Board of Control,
effective on January 1, 2001, provided, however, that:
1. the total revenue generated by
all of the fees for Right-of-Way Permits does not exceed the City’s
right-of-way costs;

The City Record
2. any increase in such fees is no
greater than a cumulative five percent (5%) per year annual increase
above the annual fee in the year
2000, or the annual fee during the
year in which the fee was last
increased, whichever is later; and
3. the cumulative impact of all
increases to the fees by the Director shall not be greater than twelve
percent (12%) above the amount of
the fees contained in this section.
(b) The United States, State of
Ohio, political subdivisions of the
State other than the City and their
agencies, departments and divisions
shall be exempt from the provisions
of this Section 510.08.
(c) A holder of a written franchise agreement for the use and
occupation of the right-of-way shall
be entitled to receive a credit in the
amount of any franchise fee paid
annually to the City against the permit fee otherwise payable pursuant
to division (a)(1) of this section. In
addition, the holder of a franchise
agreement for cable television service which provides for the use and
occupation of the right-of-way shall
not be required to pay that portion
of the permit fee otherwise payable
pursuant to division (a)(1) of this
section which, when added to the
annual cable franchise fee paid to
the City by permittee, exceeds the
maximum annual limit for cable
franchise fees fixed by federal law.
(d) Each Right-of-Way Permittee
shall maintain books, records, maps,
documents,
and
other
evidence
directly pertinent to its calculation
of payments to the City. The Director, the City’s Director of Finance,
or either’s designated agents shall
have
reasonable
access
to
any
books, records, maps, documents,
and other evidence for inspection,
copying, and audit to the extent necessary to assure that the payments
made are accurate and that all
Right-of-Way Permittees fully comply with this chapter and their permits.
Section 510.09 Indemnity; Insurance
(a) Each permittee shall, as a
condition of the permit, indemnify,
protect, and hold harmless the City
from any claim, loss, or damage
arising in any way from the permittee’s occupation or use of the
right-of-way, or from the actions of
any contractor, subcontractor or
agent of the permittee, including
but not limited to the construction,
operation, or maintenance of permittee’s facilities, and from the permittee’s negligent or wrongful acts
or omissions excluding, however,
claims to the
extent they
are
caused by the City’s negligence or
willful misconduct. This section
shall not be deemed to affect the
City’s immunity from liability for
any act or negligence, as allowed
by law.
(b) Each permittee, as a condition
of the permit, shall keep in force a
policy or policies of liability insurance in the amount of One Million
Dollars ($1,000,000.00), or such other
reasonable amount as the Director
may determine, covering its facilities and operations pursuant to its
permit. The City shall be named as
an additional insured on each policy.
(c) A permittee maintaining a net
book value in excess of Ten Million
Dollars ($10,000,000.00) may submit
a letter evidencing self-insurance in
lieu of providing a policy of insurance.

1633

9
Section 510.10 Removal of Facilities
(a) Any Right-of-Way Permittee
intending to discontinue use of and
abandon any facilities within the
right-of-way shall submit a written
notice to the Director describing the
portion of the facilities to be discontinued and abandoned, any plan
for securing the same, and the proposed date of abandonment, which
shall not be less than ninety (90)
days after the date of the notice. A
permittee shall not abandon the
facilities without this notice. The
permittee shall remove or secure the
facilities in accordance with accepted safety and engineering practices,
as required by the written order of
the Director.
(b) Facilities that have not been
in use for their original purpose for
a period of one (1) year may be
presumed to be abandoned by the
Director. Upon written notice from
the Director, Permittee shall have
ninety
(90)
days
in
which
to
remove the abandoned structure, reactivate the structure and bring it
into compliance with this chapter
and the Rules and Regulations,
transfer ownership to another party
who shall bring it into compliance
with this Chapter, or identify for
the Director the reasons why the
structure has not been abandoned
and is needed for future use by permittee.
(c) Should any permittee fail,
after notice, to remove or rearrange
facilities at the Director’s request as
specified in division (a)(6) of Section 510.07 or comply with the Director’s order pursuant to this section,
the City may, at its option and in
addition to the imposition of any
penalties or other remedies contained in the Codified Ordinances,
undertake or cause to be undertaken, any reasonable action necessary
to remove, secure, or rearrange the
facilities. The City shall have no liability for any damage to permittee’s
facilities caused by such action and
the permittee shall be liable to the
City
for
all
reasonable
costs
incurred by the City in such action.
Section 510.11 Revocation
(a) In addition to any other rights
set out in this chapter, the City
reserves the right to revoke any
Right-of-Way Permit in the event
that the permittee violates any
material provision of this chapter or
its Right-of-Way Permit.
(b) The Director shall provide permittee thirty (30) days’ prior written notice of an intent to revoke a
Right-of-Way Permit. The notice
shall state the reasons for the proposed action. If the permittee cures
the violation or other cause within
the 30-day notice period, or if the
permittee initiates efforts satisfactory to the Director to remedy the
stated violation, the Director shall
rescind the notice of proposed revocation. If the permittee does not
cure the stated violation or cause or
undertake efforts satisfactory to the
Director to remedy the stated violation, the Director may revoke the
permit. The final notice of revocation shall state the permittee’s
appeal rights pursuant to Section
510.12.
(c) Unless otherwise permitted by
the Director or required by law, if
a Right-of-Way Permit is revoked,
all facilities located in the right-ofway or located upon public property pursuant to the permit shall be
promptly
removed
at
the
sole
expense of the permittee.

10
Section 510.12 Appeals
(a) An applicant or permittee may
appeal the failure of the Director to
issue a Right-of-Way Permit, the
terms and conditions of a permit,
the denial of a permit application or
permit renewal application, the revocation of a permit, a notice of violation related to a permit, or other
final City action or order taken
regarding a Right-of-Way Permit or
permit application.
(b) Appeals shall be made to the
Board of Zoning Appeals. In order
to perfect an appeal, the applicant
shall file the appeal with the Board
within ten (10) days after the Director’s final action, or within seventyfive (75) days after the filing of an
application on which the Director
has taken no action. The Board
shall review the matter and, after
affording the applicant an opportunity to be heard, either in person or
in writing, render a final determination within thirty (30) days after
the filing of the appeal, unless such
period is waived by the appellant.
The Board’s decision shall constitute a final order.
Section
510.13
Reservation
of
Rights
(a) Nothing in this chapter shall
be construed so as to grant any
right or interest in any right-of-way
or public property other than the
right or interest explicitly set forth
in this chapter or in the Right-ofWay Permit.
(b) Nothing in this chapter shall
be construed to prevent the City
from constructing, operating, maintaining, repairing, or relocating any
City-owned facilities in the right-ofway, including street lighting, communications or like facilities; or
from grading, paving, maintaining,
repairing, relocating or altering any
street, public property or right-ofway; or constructing, maintaining,
relocating, or repairing any sidewalk or other public work or
improvement. To the extent that
such work requires temporary or
permanent relocation or rearrangement of any facilities or structures
of any permittee, such relocating or
rearrangement
shall
be
accomplished at the sole cost of the permittee.
(c) Nothing in this chapter and no
permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall limit the City’s right under
the Constitution or laws of the State
to acquire by eminent domain or
otherwise any or all property of any
person that installs, places or maintains an improvement in the rightof-way.
(d) The City expressly reserves
the right to terminate a permit at
its option and to purchase all property of a permittee in the streets
and public rights-of-way for fair
market value. If the parties cannot
agree upon fair market value, the
purchase price shall be determined
as if the City had pursued a condemnation proceeding.
Section 510.14 PUCO Regulations
Nothing in this chapter shall be
read so as to limit the authority of
the
PUCO
to
regulate
utilities,
telecommunications providers and
other entities under the jurisdiction
of the PUCO within the City of
Cleveland.
Section 510.15 Foreclosure and Receivership
A permittee shall promptly notify the Director in writing of the fil-

The City Record
ing of any voluntary or involuntary
petition under the Bankruptcy Act
by or against the permittee, or any
action for foreclosure or other judicial sale of the permittee’s facilities located within the right-ofway.
Section 510.16 Nonenforcement and
Waivers by City
The
permittee
shall
not
be
relieved of any obligation to comply
with a Right-of-Way Permit or this
chapter by reason of any failure of
the City to enforce prompt compliance therewith.
Section 510.17 Right-of-Way Revolving Fund
There is hereby created the Rightof-Way Revolving Fund within the
Treasury of the City. All fees collected pursuant to this chapter shall
be deposited in the Fund and
expended solely for the purposes of
administering and enforcing this
chapter, maintaining and improving
the right-of-way, and maintaining a
computerized Geographic Information System for the City. The Fund
may be supplemented by gifts and
by further appropriations from the
General Fund.
Section 510.99 Penalties
(a) A person who violates any
part of this chapter, the Rules and
Regulations or any permit condition
shall be fined a mandatory Five
Hundred Dollars ($500.00) for a first
offense and a mandatory One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) for a second
or subsequent offense. Each day the
violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.
(b) The City may enforce this
chapter in civil or criminal proceedings, and may seek injunctive
relief to require specific performance with the provisions of this
chapter or a permit issued under
this chapter.
(c) Any permittee may be excused
for violation of this chapter and its
Right-of-Way Permit due to Force
Majeure.
Section 2. That new Sections
510.01 through 510.17 and 510.99 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, shall be effective
on the effective date of this ordinance,
provided,
however,
that
applications for General Right-ofWay Permits for facilities in existence in the right-of-way on the
effective date of this ordinance
shall be filed on or before November 1, 1999 and any General Rightof-Way Permits issued by the Director based upon such applications
shall be effective January 1, 2000,
notwithstanding the date on which
the permit is issued.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Public Service, Public Safety,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Utilities, Public Service, Public Safety, City Planning, Finance.

1634

August 18, 1999
Ord. No. 1413-99.
By Councilmen Willis and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to maintain and repair elevators, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of two (2)
years for the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
maintain and repair elevators in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than two (2)
years may be taken if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
3988)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1414-99.
By Councilmen Willis and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to design, provide and
install a comprehensive security system,
including
maintenance
and
training; authorizing the purchase
by contract of labor and materials
necessary to provide and install
fencing, gates, barriers, and related
items for the Divisions of Water,
Cleveland Public Power and Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

August 18, 1999
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to employ by contract one or more
security consultants or one or more
firms of security consultants for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to design, provide
and install a comprehensive security
system, including training, and/or to
provide system maintenance for up
to four (4) years, for the Divisions
of Water, Cleveland Public Power
and Water Pollution Control.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Public
Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for such employment as may be determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Utilities for the
purpose of compiling such a list.
The compensation to be paid for
such services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, approved by
the Director of Public Utilities, and
certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to make a written contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for each or all of the following items: labor and materials necessary to provide and install fencing, gates, barriers and related
items necessary for the security system authorized herein, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Divisions of Water,
Cleveland Public Power and Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities.
Section 3. That the agreements
authorized herein may be in the form
of a purchase, lease for a term not to
exceed five (5) years, or lease for a
term not to exceed five (5) years with
an option to purchase exercisable by
the Director of Public Utilities.
Section 4. That the cost of said contract or contracts hereby authorized
shall initially be paid from Fund No.
52 SF 001, Request No. 14037. Each
division of the Department of Public
Utilities shall reimburse said fund
for the division’s proportionate share
of the entire project.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1415-99.
By Councilmen Willis and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of labor and materials necessary
to repair water mains and appurtenances, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of two (2)
years for the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
repair water mains and appurtenances, in the approximate amount
as purchased during the preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division
of Water, Department of Public Utilities. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than two (2) years may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies until provision is made for
the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
3990)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1416-99.
By Councilmen Willis and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract of
hydraulic testing equipment, internal pipeline inspection system and
leak detection and location system,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to make a written contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for each or all of the following items: hydraulic testing equipment, internal pipeline inspection
system and leak detection and location system, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 52 SF 001,
Request No. 3989.

1635

11
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1417-99.
By Councilmen Willis and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to modify and maintain a
trac-vac residuals collection system,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of two (2)
years for the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
modify and maintain a trac-vac
residuals collection system at the
Garrett A. Morgan Water Treatment
Plant in the approximate amount as
purchased
during
the
preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division
of Water, Department of Public Utilities. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than two (2) years may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of
Purchases and
Supplies until provision is made for
the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
14038)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.

12
Ord. No. 1418-99.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Westbrook and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a lease agreement with
the United States of America for certain space at Burke Lakefront Airport for use by the Federal Aviation
Administration and authorizing the
City to provide certain services to
said leased space for a period of one
year with ten one-year options to
renew.
Whereas, the United States of
America desires to lease certain
space in the Air Traffic Control
Tower at Burke Lakefront Airport
from the City for use by the Federal Aviation Administration as an
office and an air traffic control
tower facility and to obtain certain
services therefor; and
Whereas, the City desires to lease
said space and provide said services
to the United States of America in
furtherance of its public purpose of
providing facilities and services in
aid of air transportation safety; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That any provision of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary
notwithstanding, the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
enter into a lease agreement leasing
to the United States of America
(“Government”), for use by the Federal
Aviation
Administration
(“FAA”), approximately 3,391 square
feet of space located on the second
through fifth floors of the Air Traffic Control Tower Building at Burke
Lakefront Airport for use as an
office and an air traffic control
tower for FAA operations.
The initial term of said lease
shall commence October 1, 1998, and
shall end September 30, 1999, with
an option in the Government to
renew said lease annually for ten
(10)
additional
one-year
terms
unless it gives thirty (30) days
notice that it will not exercise its
option, provided that no renewal
shall extend the term of the lease
beyond September 30, 2009. Said
lease shall provide that in consideration of that portion of rent identified herein as Cost of Services, the
City shall furnish to the lease
premises an adjacent toilet facility,
janitorial service, heat and air conditioning.
Other
utility
services,
excluding telephone, shall be furnished free of charge. The City shall
be responsible for maintenance of
the air conditioning equipment.
Section 2. That the Government
shall pay rental for the initial and
any renewal terms of $31,180 per
year, including any and all option
years.
The Cost of Services shall be subject to re-negotiation by either party
upon thirty (30) days written notice
prior to September 30 of each lease
year.
Section 3. That the Director of
Port Control is further authorized to
execute such supplemental agreements as are necessary to effect the
aforesaid renewals and, subject to
the prior approval of the Board of
Control, such other supplements as
the parties may deem desirable. The
lease agreement and any supple-

The City Record
ments thereto shall be approved by
the Director of Law prior to the execution by the Director of Port Control.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1419-99.
By Councilmen Sweeney, Westbrook and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
roadway modifications to the West
Hangar Road at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, including all
site
improvements
and
appurtenances necessary and incidental;
authorizing said director to enter
into contract for the making of the
improvement; and to employ one or
more architects or engineers necessary to design the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of constructing roadway modifications to the West Hangar Road
at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, including all site improvements and appurtenances necessary
and incidental thereto, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control, by contract let to the lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding upon a unit basis for
the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized
and directed to enter into contract
for the making of the above public
improvement
with
the
lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct component part of said
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
employ by contract one or more
architects or engineers one or more
firms of architects or engineers necessary for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
for design services, preparation of
plans and specifications necessary
to implement the public improvement authorized by this ordinance.
That the selection of said consultants for such services shall be
made by the Board of Control upon
the nomination of the Director of
Port Control from a list of qualified

1636

August 18, 1999
consultants
available
for
such
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Port Control for the
purpose of compiling such a list.
The compensation to be paid for
such services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract or
contracts herein authorized shall be
prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 4. That the costs of all the
contracts authorized herein shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60
SF 104, 60 SF 105, 60 SF 106, and
from any funds or subfunds to
which are credited any federal
grants or federal PFC authorization
for the above improvement and the
proceeds from the sale of any airport revenue bonds issued for a purpose
which
includes
the
above
improvement, Request No. 8219.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Aviation and Transportation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1420-99.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Second Amendment to
Lease
By
Way
of
Concession
between the City of Cleveland and
IMG
Motorsports-Cleveland,
Inc.,
City Contract No. 53213, to allow
them to extend the term of the
Lease and modify other conditions
of the Lease.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
enter into a Second Amendment to
Lease
By
Way
of
Concession
(“Lease”) between the City of Cleveland and IMG Motorsports-Cleveland,
Inc. (“Lessee”), City Contract No.
53213, to allow the City to extend the
term of the Lease by two (2) years,
to expire in 2004. The rent for years
2000-2002 shall be as follows:
Year

Rent

2000
2001
2002

$75,000
$80,000
$85,000

Rent for the years 2003 and 2004
shall be negotiated and agreed upon
by the Director of Port Control and
Lessee in 2002; such rental amounts
shall not be less than $100,000 per
year.
The Gross Revenue Threshold for
the years 2000-2002 shall be as follows:
Year
Gross Revenue
Threshold
2000
2001
2002

$4,320,000
$4,400,000
$4,470,000

August 18, 1999

The City Record

Such Gross Revenue Thresholds
shall be subject to reduction to
reflect any costs lower than $400,000
to stage a NASCAR truck or similar
support race event.
The Gross Revenue Threshold for
the years 2003 and 2004 shall be
negotiated and agreed upon by the
Director of Port Control and Lessee
in 2002; such thresholds shall be set
at levels where, based upon historical performance of the race
event, the City will actually receive
a share of gross revenues.
The terms of the amendment are
premised on the Grand Prix sanction
fee
in
2000-2002
not
exceeding
$1,650,000.
If
said
sanction
fee
exceeds $1,650,000 for any year 20002002, the Director of Port Control
shall
determine
in
good
faith
whether a further amendment to the
Gross Revenue Threshold is necessary.
If at any time during the term of
the Lease, or within one year of termination of the Lease, the modifications to the runways at Burke
Lakefront Airport necessary to permit an oval track are no longer
needed for the race event, Lessee
will, if requested by the City and at
no cost to the City, restore the runways and airfield to their original
condition.
Section 2. That said amendment
shall be prepared and approved by
the Director of Law and shall contain such other terms and provisions
as the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.

Ord. No. 1422-99.
By Councilman Cimperman (by
request).
An
emergency
ordinance
to
change the name of Glass Avenue
N.E. to “Lausche Avenue N.E.”.
Whereas,
Glass
Avenue
N.E.
directly abuts the St. Vitus Church
property, and the leadership of St.
Vitus Church in the St. Clair/Superior Neighborhood is where the
Lausche brothers were members for
a significant part of their lives;
and,
Whereas, in honor of the distinguished civic service by the Lausche
brothers as Frank J. Lausche was
the former Mayor of the City of
Cleveland, the former Governor of
the State of Ohio and the former
United States Senator for the State
of Ohio, and his brother, Harold J.
Lausche, served the City of Cleveland as former Director of the
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties; and,
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the name of Glass
Avenue
N.E.
(50.00
feet
wide)
extending from the Easterly line of
East 60th Street (50.00 feet wide),
Easterly to the Westerly line of
East 64th Street (50.00 feet wide), be
changed to “Lausche Avenue N.E.”.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.

Ord. No. 1421-99.
By Councilman Cimperman (by
request).
An
emergency
ordinance
to
change the name of Alpha Court
S.E. to “Benjamin Rose Court S.E.”.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the name of that
portion of Alpha Court S.E. (15.00
feet wide) extending between the
Easterly line of East 8th Street
(16.00 feet wide) to the Westerly
line of East 9th Street (99.00 feet
wide), be changed to “Benjamin
Rose Court S.E.”.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.

Ord. No. 1423-99.
By Councilman Sweeney (by request).
An
emergency
ordinance
to
change the name of Cleveland Business Park Drive to “Cleveland Parkway S.W.”.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the name of that
portion of Cleveland Business Park
Drive,
(width
varies)
extending
Easterly from the Easterly line of
Rocky River Drive (width varies) to
its Easterly terminus, is changed to
“Cleveland Parkway S.W.”.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.

1637

13
Ord. No. 1424-99.
By Councilmen Sweeney, Zone and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 3103.111 thereof, relating to the authority of employees of
the Service Department to ticket for
failure to remove graffiti.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Section 3103.111 thereof, to read
as follows:
Section
3103.111
Ticketing
by
Employees of the Department of
Public Service
In addition to any other means of
enforcement provided for in these
Codified Ordinances, the Director of
Public Service and his designees,
when commissioned by the Director
of Public Safety as special police,
may enforce the minor misdemeanor
offense contained in division (a) of
Section 3103.11 through the issuance
of citations in accordance with Rule
4.1 of the Rules of Criminal Procedure.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on
Public
Service,
Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1425-99.
By
Councilmen
Zone,
Coats,
Robinson and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
execute an easement granting to
Ameritech certain easement rights
in property located at W. 117th
Street
and
Linnet
Avenue
and
declaring said easement rights no
longer needed for public use.
Whereas, Ameritech has requested
the Director of Public Safety to convey certain easement rights in property located on W. 117th Street and
Linnet Avenue, site of Fire Station
No. 33; and
Whereas, Ameritech requires the
easement rights for the purposes of
constructing a controlled environment vault which will house remote
electronic
equipment
needed
to
upgrade telecommunications and to
allow for the deployment of fiber
optics in the vicinity of the fire station; and
Whereas, the easement rights to
be granted are no longer needed for
public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

14
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is hereby found and
determined that an easement interest in the following described property is no longer needed for public
use:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Rockport Township Section
No. 11:
Starting at the intersection of the
Southerly line of Linnet Avenue,
50.00 feet wide, and the Westerly
line of West 117th Street, 80.00 feet
wide, as shown by The Crawford
Land Co.’s Subdivision No. 3 of part
of Original Rockport Township Section No. 11, recorded in Volume 64,
Page 30 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence North 89° 15' 55" West
along the said Southerly line of Linnet Avenue, 73.00 feet to the Principal Place of Beginning of the easement
herein
intended
to
be
described;
Thence South 0° 44' 05" West, perpendicular to the said Southerly line
of Linnet Avenue, 20.00 feet;
Thence North 89° 15' 55" West,
parallel with the said Southerly line
of Linnet Avenue, 25.00 feet;
Thence North 0° 44' 05" East,
20.00 feet to a point in the said
Southerly line of Linnet Avenue;
Thence South 89° 15' 55" East
along the said Southerly line of Linnet Avenue, 25.00 feet to the Principal Place of Beginning and containing 0.0115 acres of land as
described on March 23, 1999 by R.M.
Kole & Associates, Inc., Professional
Land Surveyors.
Section 2. That the easement shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be to construct a
controlled environment vault which
will house remote electronic equipment
needed
to
upgrade
telecommunications and to allow for the
deployment of fiber optics in the
vicinity of the fire station.
Section 3. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
above-described non-exclusive easement interest to Ameritech at a
price of Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500.00).
Section 4. That the duration of the
easement shall be until such time
as said easement should be abandoned
by
the
Grantee
by
the
removal of the controlled environment vault or cessation of use; that
the easement may include reasonable access, ingress and egress
rights; that the easement shall not
be assignable without the consent
of the Director; that the easement
shall require the grantee to indemnify the City, provide reasonable
insurance, maintain any Grantee
improvements located within the
easement, and pay any applicable
taxes and assessments.
Section 5. That the conveyance
referred to above shall be made by
Official Deed of Easement prepared
by the Director of Law and executed by the Director of Public Safety
on behalf of the City of Cleveland.
The Deed of Easement shall contain
such additional terms and conditions
as are required to protect the interest of the parties. The Directors of

The City Record
Public Safety and Law are authorized to execute such other documents, including without limitation,
contracts for right of entry, as may
be necessary to effect the construction of the controlled environment
vault within the property described
in Section 1.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Public Service, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Safety, Public
Service, City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1426-99.
By Councilmen Coats and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Public Safety for the 2000 Selective Traffic
Enforcement Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the amount of $49,985.45, from the
Ohio Department of Public Safety, to
conduct the 2000 Selective Traffic
Enforcement Program, for the purposes set forth in the application
and according thereto; that the
Director of Public Safety is hereby
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the application for
said grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 1426-99-A, made
a part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 1427-99.
By Councilmen Gordon, Jones and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to lease Brookside Park Ball Diamond #1 to St.
Ignatius High School, for a term not
to exceed ten years with two fiveyear options to renew.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain property known as

1638

August 18, 1999
Brookside Park Ball Diamond #1
which is suitable for lease and operation by another party for a public
use; and
Whereas, St. Ignatius High School
has proposed to lease said property
from the City for the exclusive use
by St. Ignatius High School baseball
team for use as their home baseball
field in exchange for making annual site improvements to the baseball
field; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is authorized to lease to St. Ignatius High
School, exclusively, the Brookside
Park Ball Diamond #1, from March
1 through June 1, during daylight
hours only, which is determined to
be suitable for operation by the
Lessee for the public purpose of
securing site improvements at no
cost to the City and by providing a
home field to the St. Ignatius High
School baseball team for the term of
the lease.
Section 2. That the term of the
lease authorized by Section 1 shall
not exceed ten (10) years, with two
options exercisable by the Director
of Parks, Recreation and Properties,
to renew for additional five-year
terms, and cancelable upon thirty
days written notice by said director.
Section
3.
That
the
property
described in Section 1 shall be
leased to St. Ignatius High School at
no rental fee, but St. Ignatius High
School shall make site improvements to the baseball diamond in
the approximate amount of $1,500 to
$2,000 annually for each year of the
lease.
Section 4. That the lease may
authorize
the
lessee
to
make
improvements to the leased premises subject to the approval of appropriate City agencies and officials.
Section 5. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain such authorized terms
and conditions as are required to
protect the interests of the City.
Section 6. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and the Director of Law, and other
appropriate
City
officials,
are
authorized to execute such other
documents
and
certificates, and
take such other actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to effect
the lease authorized by this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Parks, Property and Recreation,
Finance.

August 18, 1999
Ord. No. 1428-99.
By Councilmen
Jones and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into a
concession agreement for the operation of soft drink, candy, snack and
other vending machines throughout
City parks and various City-owned
and City-leased buildings.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is hereby
authorized to enter into a concession
agreement on the basis of competitive proposals, for the operation of
soft drink, candy, snack and other
vending machines throughout City
parks and various City-owned and
City-leased buildings under the control the Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties and under the
control of other City departments
where the director of the department authorizes participation in the
concession agreement, except City
recreation
centers
and
the
Humphrey Sports Complex, for a
period not to exceed three (3) years.
The selection of said concessionaire
shall be made by the Board of Control upon the nomination of the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties.
Section 2. That, to the extent provided by law, fifty percent (50%) of
the City revenues derived from the
vending machines described in Section 1 shall be deposited into Fund
No. 01-70-04-8420 or 01-70-04-8740 for
the improvement of, use of, and
maintenance of City of Cleveland
recreation centers.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1429-99.
By Councilmen Robinson, Jones
and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to sell Cityowned property no longer needed
for public use located at Herron
Row at Kingsbury to Karl F. Morris and Sue I. Morris.
Whereas, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties has requested the sale of City-owned property no longer needed for public use
and located at Herron Row at
Kingsbury; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is hereby found and
determined
that
the
following
described property is no longer
needed for public use:
Permanent Parcel Number 127-18-091
Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and
State of Ohio and known as being
part of Original 100 Acre Lot No.
442, and further known as being
Sublot No. 31 in Herron Row at
Kingsbury,
as
shown
by
the
recorded plat of said Subdivision
in Volume 265 of Maps, Pages 6770 and as re-recorded in Volume
266, Pages 8-11 of Cuyahoga County Records. Said Sublot 31 has a
frontage
of
65.00
feet
on
the
Northerly side of Kingsbury Boulevard and extends back (between
parallel lines) 209.47 feet on the
Westerly line, 188.30 feet on the
Easterly line, and has a rear line
of 68.36 feet, and containing 0.2968
acres as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to sell the
above-described property to Karl F.
Morris and Sue I. Morris at a price
not less than fair market value as
determined by the Board of Control.
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed to be
prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain provisions including
such restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the Board of Control or
Director of Law protecting the parties as their respective interests
require and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection
of any advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1430-99.
By Councilmen Jackson, Robinson
and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Central Avenue and
Hawthorne
Avenue
to
Goodwill
Industries of Greater Cleveland.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facili-

1639

15
tate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization Program is acquired, held,
administered and disposed of by
the City of Cleveland through its
Department of Community Development under the terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code
and Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 118-18-020,
118-18-021, 118-18-022 and 118-18-032,
as more fully described in Section 2
below, to Goodwill Industries of
Greater Cleveland.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 118-18-020
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Westerly part of Sublot No. 14 in
L.M. Southern and W.S. Chamberlain Subdivision of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 334
and 335 as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 11 of Maps, Pages
42 and 43 of Cuyahoga County
Records and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Central Avenue, S.E., (formerly Garden Street) at the Southwesterly corner of said Sublot No. 14; thence
Easterly along said Northerly line
of Central Avenue, S.E., 45 feet;
thence Northerly on a line parallel
to the Easterly line of Sublot No. 14,
150 feet to the Northerly line of said
Sublot No. 14; thence Westerly along
said Northerly line of Sublot No. 14,
40 feet to an angle; thence Southwesterly along a Northwesterly line
of said Sublot No. 14, 7-7/100 feet to
an angle; thence Southerly along the
Westerly line of said Sublot No. 14
which is also the Easterly line of an
alley, 145 feet to the place of beginning, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
P.P. No. 118-18-021 and
118-18-022
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly 50 feet of Sublot No. 14 and the
Westerly 35 feet of Sublot No. 15 in
Southern and Chamberlain’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 334 and 335, as
shown by the recorded plat of said
Subdivision in Volume 11 of Maps,
Page
42
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records. Said part of said Sublots
Nos. 14 and 15 together form a parcel of land having a frontage of 85
feet on the Northerly side of Central
Avenue, S.E., and extends back

16
between parallel lines, 150 feet to a
16 foot alley, as appears by said
plat.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
P.P. No. 118-18-032
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 38 in L.M. Southern and
W.S. Chamberlain’s Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 334 and 335, as shown by
the recorded plat of said Subdivision
in Volume 11 of Maps, Page 42 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line of
Hawthorne Avenue, S.E., (formerly
Hawthorne Avenue) at the Northwesterly corner of said Sublot No.
38; thence Southerly along the Westerly line of said Sublot No. 38, 145
feet; thence Southeasterly 7.07 feet
to a point on the rear line of said
Sublot No. 38, 90 feet Westerly (measured along said Southerly line)
from the Southeasterly corner of
said Sublot No. 38; thence Easterly
along the Southerly line of Sublot
No. 38, 45 feet; thence Northerly on
a line parallel to the Westerly line
of said Sublot No. 38, 150 feet to the
Southerly
line
of
Hawthorne
Avenue, S.E., thence Westerly along
said Southerly line of Hawthorne
Avenue, S.E., 50 feet to the place of
beginning, as appears by the plat.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1431-99.
By Councilmen White and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to enter into contract with various entities to provide services under Titles IIA and
IIC of the 1999 Job Training Partnership Act; and~authorizing the
Directors of Personnel and Human
Resources and Public Safety to
enter into a memorandum of understanding to implement training.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources is
authorized to enter into contract
with Famicos Foundation, The Merrick House, the Cleveland School
Board,
Ohio
Technical
College,
Cleveland Truck and Bus Driving
Academy, Inc., Meadowmark Computer Training, Inc., and King College of Business dba Sawyer College, for the delivery of adult and
youth employment and training services under Title IIA-77%, Title IIA5% and Title IIC-82% of the 1999
Job Training Partnership Act.
Section 2. That the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources is
authorized to enter into a memorandum of understanding with the
Director of Public Safety to implement the delivery of youth employment and training services under
the 1999 Job Training Partnership
Act.
Section 3. That the contracts authorized above and implementation of
the memorandum of understanding
shall not exceed $854,507.00 and
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 15 SF
091 and 15 SF 095, Request Nos. 8925,
8926, 8927, 8928, 8931, 8932, 8981, 8982,
8983, and 8995.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Personnel
and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Committees on Employment,
Affirmative Action and Training,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1432-99.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Jackson and Johnson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract
amendment with Post Office Plaza
Limited Partnership to accept a discount prepayment of the UDAG loan
regarding the renovation and tenant
build out of the former post office
at 301 West Prospect.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
Nos. 1249-85, passed June 10, 1985, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2589-85,
passed November 11, 1985, Council
authorized the Director of Economic
Development to accept an Urban
Development Action Grant (“UDAG”)
from the United States Department
of Housing and Urban Development

1640

August 18, 1999
(“HUD”) and to enter into a contract
with the Post Office Plaza Limited
Partnership (the “Contract”), or its
designee, for renovation and tenant
build out of the former post office
at 301 West Prospect; and
Whereas, Post Office Plaza Limited Partnership was the authorized
designee under the Contract; and
Whereas, Post Office Plaza Limited Partnership has requested the
opportunity to prepay the $9,200,000
zero interest loan at its net present
value determined by discounting by
a rate of eight percent (8%) the balloon principal payment due March 2,
2010; and
Whereas, this ordinance allows
the Department of Economic Development to secure financial assistance funds for the fourth quarter
1998 and 1999 City-wide projects; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure that
the same provides for the immediate
preservation of the public peace,
safety, property and welfare, in that
its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to providing immediate
assistance to create and preserve
job opportunities and advance and
promote commercial and economic
development in the City of Cleveland; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept on behalf of the City,
a discounted prepayment from Post
Office Plaza Limited Partnership to
be paid to the City no later than
October 1, 1999, in an amount equal
to the net present value of the loan
using a discount rate equal to eight
percent (8%) in full satisfaction of
its loan of $9,200,000 due in a balloon payment March 2, 2010 which
loan was made to partially finance
the renovation and tenant build out
of the former post office at 301 West
Prospect. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under said prepayment.
Section 2. That the UDAG Development Contract Amendment authorized herein shall be prepared by
the Director of Law and shall contain such terms and conditions as
shall be deemed necessary or appropriate to protect the interests of the
City.
Section 3. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to release any and all
collateral taken to secure repayment
of said loan and to execute all documents necessary to release said
collateral. Any release of security
instruments shall be prepared and
approved by the Director of Law.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to deposit the prepayment into Fund No. 17 SF 006.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

The City Record

August 18, 1999

17

Ord. No. 1435-99.
By Councilmen Robinson, Zone and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 350.14, 350.19 and 350.20 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by various ordinances, relating to signs for shopping centers and other business uses.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following Sections of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 350.14, as amended by Ordinance No. 648-96, passed June 10, 1996,
Section 350.19, as amended by Ordinance No. 3076-A-89, passed December 10, 1990, and
Section 350.20, as amended by Ordinance No. 1131-93, passed June 14, 1993
are hereby amended to read, respectively, as follows:
Section 350.14 Signs for Retail Districts
Signs for uses in University Retail, Local Retail, General Retail and Shopping Center Districts shall be permitted as regulated below:
(a) Maximum Sign Face Area (Retail). The maximum sign face area of all permanent building-mounted signs
for each building or unit thereof shall be related to the width of the building or unit. (For lots without buildings or with unusually small buildings, see division (d) of Section 350.20.) Maximum sign face area, excluding
the area of free-standing signs, shall be determined according to the measurement standards of Section 350.05 and
the following formula where “W” is the width of frontage (in feet) of the building or unit thereof: (W x 1/5) +
25 = SQUARE FEET OF SIGNAGE.
(b) Permitted Types, Number, Area and Height (Retail).
Signs by use and structural type are permitted only in accordance with the regulations presented in the schedule
of Permitted Types, Number, Area and Height (Retail). Sign types not listed are prohibited except for political
signs which are permitted as regulated in Section 350.11. (All signs are permanent unless listed as temporary).
SCHEDULE OF PERMITTED TYPES, NUMBER, AREA, & HEIGHT
(RETAIL)
SIGNS BY

SIGNS BY STRUCTURAL TYPE

USE TYPE

FREE-STANDING

IDENTIFICATION
OR
2, 3
BUSINESS

4

#: 1 per lot
1
SF: 50
Ht: 12'-Local Retail
Districts
Ht: 25'-Other Retail
Districts

WALL

WINDOW

SF: As regulated by formula . . . .

CANOPY

PROJECTING

#: 1 per building
unit
SF: 6 if hanging
from soffit

#: 1 per building
unit
SF: 12

#: Minimum necessary as approved by Building Commissioner . . . .
DIRECTIONAL &
5
INFORMATION

REAL ESTATE
(Temporary)

6

DEVELOPMENT
(Temporary)

TEMPORARY
(Excluding Real
Estate and
Development)

SF: 4
Ht: 3'
#: 1 per street
frontage
SF: 48
Ht: 10'

SF: 4
#: 1 per building
side
SF: 48

SF: 4

SF: 4

Not Permitted

#: 1 per building
unit
SF: 12

Not Permitted

Not Permitted

Not Permitted

Not Permitted

#: 2 per lot (total) . . . .
SF: 96
Ht: 12'

SF: 96

As permitted in Section 350.12

SF: 12

SF: 25% of
window area

As permitted in Section 350.12

#: Maximum number of signs
SF: Maximum sign area (in square ft.) per side of each sign
Ht.: Maximum height for free-standing signs and roof signs
Sign Area Formula: (W x 1.5) + 25 - square feet
1

Except 75 sq. ft. maximum for establishments with a building frontage of 100-200 ft. and 100 sq. ft. maximum
for establishments with a building frontage exceeding 200 ft. For shopping centers, see Section 350.14(d).
2

Identification or business signs using animation, electronically-changeable copy or flashing lights are specifically prohibited for “adult entertainment uses,” as defined in Section 343.11(a)[347.07(b)].
3

Identification and business signs using animation or electronically-changeable copy are permitted in General
Retail and Shopping Center districts as free-standing, wall or window signs and, for theatres, also as canopy signs.
4

See division (b) of Section 350.20.

5

For hospitals, colleges and other public facilities and institutions, directional and information signs may be
permitted to a maximum area of 12 sq. ft. and a maximum height of 6 ft. as necessary in the determination of
the Building Commissioner.
6

In Local Retail Districts, wall and free-standing development signs shall be limited to 48 sq. ft. and 10 ft. in
height (for free-standing signs).

1641

The City Record

18

August 18, 1999

(c) Location (Retail). Free-standing signs as permitted for retail uses shall conform with the location regulations presented in the Schedule of Location Regulations (Retail) in addition to the regulations of Section
350.08.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
SCHEDULE OF LOCATION REGULATIONS (RETAIL)
Free-Standing Sign Types
Minimum
Distance
From
_____________

Identification/

Real Estate &

Information

Business
_____________

Development
_____________

& Political
_____________

Directional
_____________

25'

25'

5'

5'

3'

3'

3'

1'

5'

5'

5'

5'

Residential
District Line
Street R.O.W.
Line(s)
Side & Rear
Lot Lines

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
(d) Shopping Centers. For purposes of this Chapter three (3) or more retail businesses located on a single lot
and served by common parking or common vehicular entrances shall be classified as a “shopping center” and
shall be permitted one (1) free-standing identification sign and one (1) wall identification sign in addition to
other permitted signs and in accordance with the following regulations:
(1) Display of Information. Each shopping center identification sign shall display only the name of the center
and the name of not more than one (1) business located within the center, except that any shopping center with
retail floor area exceeding 150,000 square feet, excluding “outlots” with separate free-standing signs, such sign
may display the names of not more than two (2) businesses located within the center.
(2) Size. The maximum sign face area of a shopping center identification sign shall equal twenty (20) square
feet for each 10,000 square feet of gross floor area but shall not exceed 125 square feet. All shopping centers,
however, shall be permitted a sign of at least fifty (50) square feet.
(3) Other Regulations. All other regulations of this chapter applicable to identification signs shall apply to a
shopping center identification sign.
(4) Other Signs. A lot displaying a shopping center identification sign may display no other free-standing identification or business signs.
(5) Secondary Frontages and Entrances. One (1) additional shopping center identification freestanding sign
and one (1) additional shopping center identification wall sign shall be permitted for a shopping center with
more than one vehicular entrance, provided that such signs meet the requirements of division (b) of Section
350.20.
(6) Outlots. If a vehicular entrance or parking lot of a shopping center also serves a use located on a separate lot (i.e., “out lot”), the free-standing identification or business sign permitted for such lot shall be limited
to a maximum of twenty-five (25) square feet in area and seven (7) feet in height.
(7) Design Review. No sign identifying a shopping center or identifying two (2) or more businesses within a
shopping center and no permanent identification sign of any type located within a designated Shopping Center
District shall be erected or altered in appearance without the approval of the City Planning Commission or its
Director. In considering such approval, the Commission shall seek to ensure that the signs demonstrate a high
degree of graphic and architectural quality, legibility, and design compatibility with the shopping center, its signage and nearby development.
(8) Consolidation of Free-Standing Signs. In the case of a shopping center with more than the number of signs
allowed under this Chapter, which signs were legally established prior to the effective date of this ordinance, a
new free-standing sign identifying two (2) or more businesses may be erected if the following conditions are
met:
A. the new multi-tenant sign shall display the name of the shopping center and tenant names no greater in
number than the tenant names currently displayed on free-standing signs in the shopping center, but in no case
shall more than six (6) tenant names be displayed on such sign;
B. all other free-standing business identification signs on the shopping center property shall be removed prior
to erection of the new sign, except that conforming signs permitted for outlots may be retained;
C. the sign does not, exceed twelve (12) feet in height.
(e) Gasoline Service Stations. Signs for gasoline service stations shall conform with all regulations of this chapter except for the maximum sign area regulations of division (a) of Section 350.14 and any regulations which
directly conflict with the regulations stated below:
(1) Free-standing Business Sign. Each station shall be permitted one (1) permanent free-standing business signs,
with total sign face area of the panel or panels not exceeding one hundred (100) square feet. Such sign shall be
limited to identifying the company name, management, fuel prices, and services offered.
(2) Signs at Service Islands. Stations shall be permitted information signs at fuel or other service islands which
display information regarding type of service or are necessary in directing or instructing the motorist who has
entered the station area. Signs not extending beyond the edges of fuel pumps are permitted and shall not be
counted as business identification signs.

1642

August 18, 1999

The City Record

19

(3) Wall and Canopy Signs. Each station shall be permitted permanent identifications, business, directional and
information signs displayed as wall or canopy signs and not exceeding one hundred (100) square feet in combined area. Non-opaque internally-illuminated canopy surfaces (“fascia”) shall be considered as sign panels for
purposes of sign area measurement.
(4) Temporary Signs. Temporary signs shall be permitted in accordance with the regulations of Section 350.12.
(f) Drive-Through Restaurants. For restaurants providing direct service to customers in motor vehicles, one
(1) free-standing or wall-mounted “menu board” sign (limited to information regarding the restaurant’s menu
and related instructions) shall be permitted for each drive-through lane in addition to signs and sign area otherwise permitted. Such sign shall not exceed forty (40) square feet in area and six (6) feet in height and shall
meet setback regulations applicable to free-standing identification signs (as specified in division (c) of this section).
(g) Regulations for Larger Projecting Signs. A projecting sign may exceed the otherwise maximum permitted
size of twelve (12) square feet and the otherwise maximum permitted projection of four (4) feet from a building wall if such sign meets the following standards:
(1) Such sign shall be set back from the closest interior side lot line and the closest tenant party wall line at
least one (1) foot for each one (1) square foot of sign area.
(2) Such sign shall in no case exceed thirty-six (36) square feet in area nor eight (8) feet in projection from
the building wall and shall be set back at least two (2) feet from the outer edge of any street curb.
(3) No Building Permit shall be issued for such sign without approval of the City Planning Commission, which
shall consider the design quality of the sign and its compatibility with the design character of the subject property and surrounding properties. In addition to considering such general design factors as placement, proportions, color, materials, and consistency with signs to be seen as a series, the City Planning Commission may
specifically require use of non-rectangular, custom-shaped panels, exposed neon or reflected lighting, unobtrusive support structures, narrow-profile sign cabinets, or other design features necessary to ensure that a larger
projecting sign will enhance the appearance of the building on which it is placed and the district in which it
is located.
(4) At least five (5) working days prior to the City Planning Commission meeting at which approval under
the regulations of this division will be considered, written notice shall be provided to the City Council member
in whose ward the proposed sign is to be located.
(h) Supplemental Regulations. Signs in Retail Districts shall also conform to regulations of Section 350.20.
Section 350.19 Nonconforming Signs and Uses
A sign which is displayed pursuant to a Building Permit issued by the City, but does not conform to current
regulations, shall be deemed a legal nonconforming sign (hereinafter referred to as a “nonconforming” sign) and
shall be governed by the following regulations:
(a) Permitted Repair and Alterations. A nonconforming sign may be painted, cleaned or repaired as required
in Section 350.18 but shall not be otherwise altered, moved or replaced unless made to conform to current regulations. Such sign, however, may be altered to permit a change of message or change of face if such change does
not structurally alter the sign casing or support.
(b) Limitation on Reconstruction. A nonconforming sign or part thereof damaged or deteriorated to an extent
exceeding fifty percent (50%) of its replacement cost shall not be reconstructed or replaced unless made to
conform to regulations of this Code. For a nonconforming sign damaged by a single incident (such as a storm),
to an extent less than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement cost, reconstruction is permitted only if such
work is begun within six (6) months of the incident and is completed within twelve (12) months of the incident.
(c) Discontinuance of Use. A nonconforming sign shall be removed or made to conform to regulations of this
Code if the use to which the sign refers has been discontinued for a continuous and immediately preceding period of at least twelve (12) months, except as provided in division (f) of this section. In the case of a nonconforming billboard, as defined in this chapter, such sign shall be removed or made to conform to regulations of
this Code if, for a continuous and immediately preceding period of at least twelve (12) months, the billboard
has been blank or has displayed copy which is faced or damaged so as to render it illegible or has referred to
an event or activity which has ended or to a business or product or service which has been discontinued. All
such determinations shall be made and documented by the Commissioner of Building and Housing or his or her
designee.
(d) Temporary Signs. All nonconforming temporary signs, including portable signs, shall be removed or made
to comply with the regulations of this Code within thirty (30) days after issuance of a violation notice by the
City.
(e) Signs for Nonconforming Uses. For legal nonconforming uses, such as a retail use in a residential zoning
district, the applicable signage regulations shall be those most appropriate to the nature of the nonconforming
use.
(f) Landmark Signs. A landmark sign is one which is determined to be historically or architecturally significant by the Landmarks Commission in accordance with the standards of divisions (a) of Section 161.04 of the
Codified Ordinances. A sign so identified by the Commission shall be exempt from the prohibitions regarding
reconstruction or retention as stated in divisions (a) and (b) of Section 350.19. Any proposed reconstruction of
such sign shall be permitted only if approved by the Landmarks Commission in accordance with its customary
standards for review.

1643

20

The City Record

August 18, 1999

Section 350.20 Supplemental Regulations
The following supplemental regulations shall apply to permitted signs in non-residential zoning districts:
(a) Non-Ground Floor Uses. For uses not located on the ground floor and for ground floor uses which lack
direct access from the building exterior, the following signs shall be permitted in addition to signs otherwise
permitted for the building. Regardless of the number of such uses in a building, not more than one (1) wall or
projecting identification sign, a maximum of twelve (12) square feet in area, shall be placed at each ground floor
entrance providing access to the uses in question. In addition, for each such use, window signs not exceeding
twenty (20) square feet in total area shall be permitted for display on the inside surface of windows within the
subject space.
(b) Secondary Frontages and Entrances.
(1) Secondary Frontages. A building or building unit with frontage on a second street or with a customer building entrance from a rear or side parking lot shall be permitted total additional wall, window, projecting and
canopy sign area not to exceed 50% of the sign area otherwise permitted. Such signs shall be displayed so that
the total sign area placed on any facade does not exceed the maximum sign area permitted for the building’s
primary frontage. This provision shall also apply to buildings or building units with secondary frontage along
the Cuyahoga River or Lake Erie and to buildings adjoining a freeway right-of-way.
(2) Secondary Entrances. For lots served by more than one (1) vehicular entrance, one (1) additional freestanding identification sign shall be permitted at each additional vehicular entrance if the minimum distance
between any two (2) such signs is five hundred (500) feet as measured along street lines. Where such distance
is less than five hundred (500) feet but more than three hundred (300) feet, a second free-standing identification
sign shall be permitted if the height of each such sign is no greater than twelve (12) feet and the combined
sign area of the two signs is no greater than one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the maximum sign area permitted for a single free-standing identification sign on the subject property.
(c) New Businesses. Upon its initial opening, a new business establishment may display a temporary identification sign for a maximum period of sixty-two (62) days prior to installation of a permanent identification sign. Such temporary sign may be a wall, window or portable sign which shall conform with all regulations applicable to permanent signs (except clearly inapplicable structural requirements) and shall be counted as part of the maximum permitted permanent sign area. In addition, temporary window signs for such
new businesses may cover up to 75% of window area. Strings of pennants, streamers, pinwheels, balloons and
similar small lightweight objects shall be permitted for “grand openings” for a single period not exceeding
seven (7) days within the first six (6) months after issuance of the initial Occupancy Certificate for a new
business.
(d) Open Lots. For uses without buildings, and for uses on lots where building frontage is less than 20% of
lot frontage, maximum sign face area for the use, including free-standing signs, shall be the greater of fifty (50)
square feet or the figure resulting from the following formula where “LW” equals the width of the lot frontage,
as defined in division (a)(2) of Section 350.05: LW x 1.0 = SQUARE FEET OF SIGNAGE. The area of a freestanding sign shall in no instance exceed one hundred (100) square feet.
(e) Major Public Assembly Facilities. For public assembly facilities located within the Central Business District and providing a minimum seating or attendance capacity of 5,000 persons, signage shall be permitted in
accordance with the following standards contained in this division (e) which recognize the unique nature of these
large-scale public assembly facilities. Except as provided in these standards, all other regulations of this Zoning
Code shall apply to such signage.
(1) Type, Number, Height and Location of Signs. The City Planning Commission may authorize variations in
otherwise applicable regulations of this chapter to the extent necessary to provide adequate information to the
public.
(2) Electronic Changeable Copy Signs. Information displayed through electronically changeable copy on signs
located on the premises of a qualifying public assembly facility or on property located within 500 feet of the
qualifying public assembly facility and owned or leased by the owners of said public assembly facility shall be
limited to the following:
A. identification of the facility or events held at the facility.
B. identification of the events held at other local public assembly facilities and identification of festivals and
other special events held in the City.
C. identification of products or services offered for sale on the premises of the qualifying public assembly
facility.
D. public service messages, such as time, temperature and information of a civil nature, including welcoming
of visitors to the City.
E. acknowledgement of organizations or individuals sponsoring events held at the facility or contributing to
the construction or operation of the facility as sponsors or patrons.
Section 2. That the following existing Sections of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 350.14, as amended by Ordinance No. 648-96, passed June 10, 1996,
Section 350.19, as amended by Ordinance No. 3076-A-89, passed December 10, 1990, and
Section 350.20, as amended by Ordinance No. 1131-93, passed June 14, 1993
are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on City Planning, Legislation,
Finance.

1644

August 18, 1999
Ord. No. 1437-99.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 5708-10 Woodland
Avenue, to First Beulah Baptist
Church.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 124-12-086,
as more fully described in Section 2
below,
to
First
Beulah
Baptist
Church.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 124-12-086
Parcel #1
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 3 in Bomford and Butler’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 331 and 332,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume “W” of Deeds, Page 721 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line of
Woodland Avenue, S.E., 493 feet 91/2 inches Easterly from the point
of intersection of the Southerly line
of Woodland Avenue, S.E., and
Northerly line of Kinsman Road,
S.E., as the same were laid out and
established before the widening of
Woodland
Avenue,
S.E.;
thence
Southerly
at
right
angles
with
Woodland Avenue, S.E., 215 feet,
thence Easterly parallel with the
Southerly line of Woodland Avenue,
S.E., 14 feet; thence Northerly parallel with said Westerly line, 215 feet
to the Southerly line of Woodland
Avenue, S.E.; thence Westerly along
said Southerly line, 14 feet to the
place of beginning as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Excepting about 10 feet across the
front of the aforesaid premises
taken by the City to widen Woodland Avenue, S.E., to a width of 80
feet.
Parcel #2
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 3 in Bomford and Butler’s Subdivision of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 331
and 332, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume “W” of Deeds, Page

The City Record
721 of Cuyahoga County Records
and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line of
Woodland Avenue, S.E., (formerly
Kinsman Avenue) 80 feet wide, at
its intersection with the Westerly
line of land conveyed to Aaron G.
Harbaugh, by deed dated January
31, 1871, and recorded in Volume 184,
Page
26
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence Westerly along the
Southerly line of Woodland Avenue,
S.E., 50 feet to the Easterly line of
land conveyed to W.S. Wood, by
deed dated July 16, 1869, and recorded in Volume 166, Page 418 of Cuyahoga
County
Records;
thence
Southerly along the Easterly line so
conveyed 165 feet to the Northerly
line of land conveyed to the Rock
Investment Company, by deed dated
February 10, 1917 and recorded in
Volume 1904, Page 359 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Easterly
along the Northerly line of land so
conveyed 50 feet to the Westerly
line of land conveyed to Aaron G.
Harbaugh,
as
aforesaid;
thence
Northerly along the Westerly line of
land so conveyed to Aaron G. Harbaugh, 165 feet to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1458-99.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1132 and 1136 East
98th Street to Charles Hall and
Brenda J. Hall.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722

1645

21
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 109-07-043
and
109-07-044,
as
more
fully
described in Section 2 below, to
Charles Hall and Brenda J. Hall.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 109-07-043
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
14 in Superior Park Subdivision No.
3 of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot Nos. 376 and 377, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 37
of Maps, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 50 feet front
on the Westerly side of East 98th
Street and extending back of equal
width 120 feet deep, to the Easterly
line of East 98th Place, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to covenants and
restrictions recorded in Volume 1309,
Page
5
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records.
P.P. No. 109-07-044
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
15 in B. Schatzinger’s Superior Park
Subdivision No. 3 of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 376 and
377, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 37 of Maps, Page 17 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
being 50 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 98th Street, and extending back of equal width 120 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.

The City Record

22
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1433-99.
By Councilman Cintron.
An
ordinance
to
establish
a
Planned Unit Development Overlay
District and approve the corresponding Planned Unit Development
project on properties located on the
northwest and southwest corners of
Center Street and Riverbed and the
southeast corner of Center Street
and Washington, and shown as Map
Change No. 1991, Sheet No. 1; and to
change the use and area districts on
said parcels of land. (Map Change
No. 1991, Sheet No. 1)
Whereas,
Stonebridge
Management and Development, Inc., c/o
Douglas E. Price III, President, has
submitted an application to the
Director of the City Planning Commission proposing the creation of a
Planned Unit Development (PUD)
Overlay District on properties located on the northwest and southwest
corners
of
Center
Street
and
Riverbed and the southeast corner
of Center Street and Washington,
and construction of a PUD project
to be known as “Stonebridge” on
said properties; and
Whereas, the Director of the City
Planning Commission has accepted
said application and has provided
written notification of his acceptance of the application to the member of the Council in whose ward
the proposed PUD Overlay District
and PUD project are located, and
said member of Council has not
objected; and
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland has determined that
the proposed PUD Overlay District
and PUD project meet the purposes
and the approval standards set forth
in Chapter 334 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the area outlined
on the site plan and described in the
legal description contained in File
No. 1991, and known as Stonebridge
PUD be and the same is hereby designated as a Planned Unit Development (PUD) Overlay District, in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 334 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Beginning at the intersection of
the southeasterly extension of the
northeasterly line of Sublot No. 570
in the Buffalo Company Allotment
as recorded in Volume 3, Page 51
and D.B. N13-39 of the Cuyahoga

County Map Records and the center
line of Riverbed Street, N.W.; thence
southwesterly along said center line
of Riverbed Street, N.W., to its intersection with the southeasterly extension of the southwesterly line of
Sublot No. 755 in said Buffalo Company Allotment; thence northwesterly along said southeasterly extension and along said southwesterly
line of said Sublot No. 755 to its
intersection with the northwesterly
line thereafter; thence northeasterly
along said northwesterly line of
said Sublot No. 755 and continuing
northeasterly along the northwesterly lines of Sublots Nos. 754, 753,
752, 751, 750, and 749 in said Buffalo Company Allotment to its intersection with the northwesterly line
of Sublot No. 1 in the Buffalo Company Allotment as recorded in Volume D.B. X22, Page 609 of the Cuyahoga County Map Records; thence
northeasterly along said northwesterly line of said Sublot No. 1 and
continuing northeasterly along the
northwesterly lines of Sublots Nos.
2, 3, 4, and 5 in said Buffalo Company Allotment to its intersection
with the northeasterly line of Sublot
No. 737 in said Buffalo Company
Allotment as recorded in Volume 3,
Page 51 and D.B. N13-39 of the Cuyahoga County Map Records; thence
northwesterly along said northeasterly line of said Sublot No. 737 and
along its northwesterly prolongation
to the
center line of Washington
Avenue, N.W.; thence northeasterly
along said center line of Washington Avenue, N.W. to the center line
of Center Street, N.W.; thence southeasterly along said centerline of
Center Street, N.W. to its intersection with the southwesterly extension of the southeasterly line of
Sublot No. 562 in said Buffalo Company Allotment; thence northeasterly along said southeasterly line of
said Sublot No. 562 to its intersection with said northeasterly line of
said Sublot No. 570; thence southeasterly along said northeasterly
line of said Sublot No. 570 and along
its southeasterly extension to the
place of beginning.
Section 2. That the designation of
land described in Section 1 and as
outlined in red on the map attached
hereto shall be identified as Map
Change No. 1991, Sheet No. 1, and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and in the office of the City
Planning Commission.
Section 3. That the PUD project
depicted in the site plan contained
in the above mentioned file which
has been proposed for the PUD Overlay District created by Section 1,
and which is to be known as “Stonebridge,” is hereby approved.
Section 4. That the Use and Area
Districts of lands outlined in the
site plans and described in the legal
description contained in the above
mentioned file and as outlined in
green on the map attached hereto be
and the same are hereby changed to
a General Retail Use District and a
‘C’ Area District.
Section 5. That said changed designation of lands described in Section 4 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 1991, Sheet No. 1 and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of
the City Planning Commission by
the appropriate person designated
for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.

1646

August 18, 1999
Section 6. That no building permit
shall be issued by the City of Cleveland for property located within the
General Retail Use District established by this ordinance unless the
building
permit
application
conforms with the PUD project plan
approved by this ordinance. Unless
a building permit for such development is issued within eighteen (18)
months from the effective date of
approval of this ordinance, or within
such
extension
as
may
be
approved by the Planning Commission, the Use and Area Districts
approved herein shall be void and
the zoning shall revert to the classification that existed prior to the
approval of this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Director of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.
Ord. No. 1434-99.
By Councilman O’Malley.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of lands on the northwest,
southwest, and northeast corners of
Carlos Ave., S.W., and W. 47 Street
(Map Change No. 1998, Sheet No. 2).
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of
lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of Carlos Avenue,
S.W. and the center line of West 47
Street; thence southwesterly along
said center line of West 47 Street to
its intersection with the southeasterly extension of the southwesterly
line of Sublot No. 22 in the Heil Yon
Recorded Subdivision; thence northwesterly along said southeasterly
extension and along said southwesterly line of said Sublot No. 22 to its
intersection with the northwesterly
line thereof; thence northeasterly
along said northwesterly line of said
Sublot No. 22 and along its northeasterly extension to the center line
of Carlos Avenue, S.W.; thence northwesterly along said center line of
Carlos Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the southerly extension of
the westerly line of Sublot No. 23 in
said Heil Yon Recorded Subdivision;
thence northerly along said southerly extension and along said westerly line of said Sublot No. 23 to its
intersection with the northerly line
thereof; thence easterly along said
northerly line of said Sublot No. 23
and along its easterly extension to
the center line of West 47 Street;
thence southerly along said center
line of West 47 Street to its intersection with the westerly extension
of the northerly line of Sublot No. 13
in the J. Kerns Subdivision as
recorded in Volume 34, Page 26 of
the Cuyahoga County Map Records;
thence easterly along said westerly
extension and along said northerly
line of said Sublot No. 13 to its intersection with the easterly line thereof; thence southerly along said easterly line of said Sublot No. 13 and
along its southerly extension to the
center line of Carlos Avenue, S.W.;
thence northwesterly along said center line of Carlos Avenue, S.W. to the
place of beginning,
and as outlined in red on the map
hereto attached be, and the same is
hereby changed to, a Two-Family
Use District.
Section 2. That said changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 1998, Sheet No. 2 and

August 18, 1999
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of
the City Planning Commission by
the appropriate person designated
for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Director of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 1436-99.
By Councilman Cimperman (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate all that
portion of East 33rd Street.
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate
all that portion of East 33rd Street,
as hereinafter described, and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate the following
described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all that
portion of:
EAST 33RD STREET (66.00 feet
wide), extending Northerly from the
Northerly line of St. Clair Avenue
N.E. (99.00 feet wide) to the Southerly line of Hamilton Avenue N.E.
(66.00 feet wide).
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1438-99.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor, or his designee, to
accept registration fees, enter into
contract for the provision of facilities to purchase course supplies and
refreshments, in connection with the
James H. Walker Construction Management Training Course to be conducted by the Office of Equal Opportunity.
Whereas, the Office of Equal
Opportunity is required, pursuant to
Section 123.08 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and
the MBE/FBE Code contained in
Chapter 187 thereof, to hold periodic training seminars to assist minority and female business firms; and
Whereas from September 14, 1999
through October 19, 1999, the Office
of Equal Opportunity will be sponsoring the James H. Walker Construction
Management
Training
Course; and

The City Record
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland has determined that
collection of fees and provision of
facilities, course supplies, refreshments and a graduation dinner in
connection with said training course
constitute a public purpose; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Mayor, or his
designee, is hereby authorized to
accept a registration fee of One
Hundred
Twenty-Five
Dollars
($125.00)
from
every
registrant
attending the James H. Walker Construction
Management
Training
Course, being held September 14,
1999 through October 19, 1999; to
enter into contract with Cuyahoga
Community
College
for
seminar
facilities; and to purchase course
supplies,
refreshments
and
food
required for the training course and
graduation dinner. Such facilities,
services and food shall be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Office of Equal Opportunity,
using fees collected for registration,
and paid from Fund No. 01-001011302-632000, Request No. 13001.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1439-99.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Fairhill Center for the Aging to
stretch seven (7) banners at Fairhill
Road and East 124th Street on utility poles (by separate permission)
for the period of July 27, 1999
through August 23, 1999, inclusive
publicizing their special event.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to Fairhill Center for Aging, 12200 Fairhill Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, to install,
maintain and remove seven (7) banners on Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company and also on Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by
separate permission), at the following locations and pole numbers;
Cleveland
Electric
Illuminating
Company poles at Fairhill Road;
Pole Numbers 53246(5), 53246(6),
53246(7), 53246(8) and Cleveland
Public Power poles at East 124th
Street; Pole Numbers 183-2-5-2-12, 1832-5-2-11, 183-2-5-2-10; for the period of
July 27, 1999 to August 23, 1999,
inclusive, publicizing their special
event; and which banners shall be

1647

23
approved by the Director of Public
Service in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banners, and said
banners shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1440-99.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Little Italy 2000 Redevelopment to
stretch six (6) banners at Mayfield
Road on utility poles (by separate
permission) for the period of July
20, 1999 through August 27, 1999,
inclusive publicizing their annual
festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to Little Italy
2000 Redevelopment, 12510 Mayfield
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, to
install, maintain and remove six (6)
banners on Cleveland Public Power
utility poles (by separate permission), at the following locations and
pole numbers; 12009 Mayfield Road Pole #40, 12021 Mayfield Road - Pole
#40-1, 12113 Mayfield Road - Pole
#40-2, 12307 Mayfield Road - Pole
#40-4, 12407 Mayfield Road - Pole
#40-5, 12511 Mayfield Road - Pole
#40-6; for the period of July 20, 1999
to August 27, 1999, inclusive, publicizing their annual festival; and
which banners shall be approved by
the Director of Public Service in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign, erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banners, and said banners shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

The City Record

24
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1441-99.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Mega Church to stretch two (2) banners on West 25th Street at Prame
and Blatt Avenues on utility poles
(by separate permission) for the
period of August 5, 1999 through September 24, 1999, inclusive publicizing
the Children’s Day Care Center.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to Mega Church,
3170 Scranton Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44109,
to
install,
maintain
and
remove two (2) banners on Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by
separate permission), at the following locations and pole numbers; Pole
#AOM 18-59, which is the first pole
south of Prame Avenue (East) on
West 25th Street, and Pole #AOM 1854, which is the second pole south of
Blatt Avenue (West) on West 25th
Street; for the period of August 5,

1999 to September 24, 1999, inclusive,
publicizing the Children’s Day Care
Center; and which banners shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Service in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banners, and said
banners shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1442-99.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the St. Ignatius Run on
September 12, 1999, sponsored by St.
Ignatius High School.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

August 18, 1999
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of a Run sponsored by
St. Ignatius High School, on September 12, 1999 beginning at St.
Ignatius High School W. 32nd and
Lorain, Lorain to Abbey, Abbey to
Columbus, Columbus to Riverbed,
Riverbed to Carter, Carter to Scranton, Scranton to Train, Train to
Wiley and return the same route,
provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police or safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all
liability
resulting
from
the
issuance of the same, to the event
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1443-99.
By Councilman Cimperman (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Project LEARN to encroach
into the right-of-way at 2728 Euclid Avenue with six (6) banners to be attached to utility poles (by separate permission).
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service hereby is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of Council, and assignable by the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to Project LEARN,
lessee and occupant of the premises at 2728 Euclid Avenue, Suite 200, Cleveland, Ohio 44115-2412, its successors and
assigns, to construct, use and maintain six (6) banners to be attached to three (3) utility poles (by separate permission)which will encroach into the right-of-way at 2728 Euclid Avenue, at the locations more fully described herein.
PROJECT LEARN BANNERS/UTILITY POLE LOCATIONS AND OWNERS:
LOCATION:

POLE NUMBER:

OWNER:

1. 1st pole West of 2728
Euclid Avenue (S)

B81-15

C.P.P.

2. 2728 Euclid Avenue (S)

B81-16

C.P.P.

3. 1st pole East of 2728
Euclid Avenue (S)

B81-15

C.P.P.

Section 2. That nothing in this ordinance grants or shall be considered a grant to Permittee any right, privilege
or permission to use or to attach or affix any objects to poles described in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 3. That said banners will be placed within the public right-of-way as aforesaid in Section 1, and will
be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction.
Section 4. That the permit herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall be issued only
when in the opinion of the Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified against any
and all loss which may result from said permit.
Section 5. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.

1648

August 18, 1999
Ord. No. 1444-99.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at Whittier Avenue to
Joni Janine Johnson.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 104-19-100
and
104-19-101,
as
more
fully
described in Section 2 below, to Joni
Janine Johnson.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 104-19-100
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
62 in Sweesy and others Re-Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 340 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 12 of
Maps, Page 40 of Cuyahoga County
Records, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
P.P. No. 104-19-101
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
64 in Sweesy Et. Al. Re-Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 340, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 12 of Maps, Page
40 of Cuyahoga County Records, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the

The City Record
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1445-99.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Light the Night
Leukemia Walk-A-Thon on September 25, 1999, sponsored by the
Leukemia Society.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Light the Night
Leukemia Walk-a-Thon sponsored
by the Leukemia Society, on September 25, 1999 starting at Parcel H
behind the Rock & Roll Hall of
Fame, head along the perimeter of
the inner harbor behind, into and
around the Cleveland Browns Stadium. From the stadium, proceed onto
Erieside Avenue and head to East
9th. Take East 9th to take a right
onto Carnegie, proceed on Carnegie
to take a right onto Ontario, from
Ontario take a left into Public
Square and a left onto Superior (in
front of Terminal Tower), take
Superior to West 9th Street, from the
corner of Superior & West 9th, head
down the hill to Settler’s Landing to
finish, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

1649

25
Ord. No. 1446-99.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with E.B.C. FERRY to sponsor
various community events for the
benefit of Ward 10 of the City of
Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with E.B.C. FERRY to sponsor various community events, including
the Ward 10 Community Fest to be
held on September 4, 1999, for the
benefit of Ward 10 of the City of
Cleveland.
Section 2. That the costs of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed Five Thousand Dollars
($5,000.00) and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1447-99.
By
Councilman
Jackson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into contract with
Richard Fleischman Architects, Inc.
for a building condition survey in the
historic block of East 105th Street
between Wade Park and Lee Avenue,
for the Division of Neighborhood
Development, Department of Community Development.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with Richard Fleischman Architects,
Inc. for professional services necessary for a building condition survey
in the historic block of East 105th
Street between Wade Park and Lee
Avenue, on the basis of their proposal dated July 12, 1999, in the
total sum of $20,900.00, payable from
Fund No. 14 SF 025, Request No.
1297, for the Division of Neighborhood Development, Department of
Community Development.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of

26
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1448-99.
By
Councilman
Jackson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with Greater Cleveland Media
Development Corporation to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the development
and administration of a program to
market the City of Cleveland as a
place to produce commercials, television programs and major motion
pictures.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a grant
agreement with Greater Cleveland
Media Development Corporation to
provide economic development assistance to partially finance the
development and administration of a
program to market the City of
Cleveland as a place to produce commercials, television programs and
major motion pictures.
Section 2. That the term of said
grant shall be in accordance with
the terms as set forth in the Executive Summary contained in File No.
1448-99-A.
Section 3. That the grant shall not
exceed
Sixty
Thousand
Dollars
($60,000), and shall be paid from
Fund No. 17 SF 652, Request No. 1016.
Section 4. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said grant agreement and such
other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1449-99.
By Councilman Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Buckeye Area Development Corporation to perform various
services and to purchase equipment
for the benefit of Ward 4 of the City
of Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

The City Record
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Buckeye Area Development
Corporation to perform various services and to purchase equipment for
the benefit of Ward 4 of the City of
Cleveland, including a home repair
assistance program, mortgage assistance program, storefront renovation
and the purchase of a tractor.
Section 2. That the costs of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed Two Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($200,000.00) and shall be
paid from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1450-99.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1616 and 1610-12 East
66th Street to Keith Benford and
Sylvia Benford.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio, Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 106-14-093
and
106-14-094,
as
more
fully
described in Section 2 below, to
Keith Benford and Sylvia Benford.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-14-093
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of

1650

August 18, 1999
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 31 feet of Sublot No. 62 in
Samuel B. Strang’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 341, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page
46 of Cuyahoga County Records,
and being 31 feet front on the Westerly side of East 66th Street, and
extending back 132.83 feet on the
Southerly line (which is also the
Northerly side of Quimby Avenue),
132.83 feet on the Northerly line and
having a rear line of 31 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
P. P. No. 106-14-094
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 31 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 61 and the Northerly 2
feet from front to rear of Sublot No.
62 in Sam’l B. Strang’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 341, as shown by the recorded plat of said Allotment in Volume
3 of Maps, Page 46 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Said parts of Sublots Nos. 61 and
62, together form a parcel of land
having a frontage of 33 feet on the
Westerly side of East 66th Street
(formerly Dunham Avenue) and
extending back between parallel
lines 132 feet 9 inches to an alley
(now known as East 66th Place) in
the rear, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

August 18, 1999
Ord. No. 1451-99.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at Hough Avenue to
Leodis C. Matthews.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 118-03-090,
as more fully described in Section 2
below, to Leodis C. Matthews.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 118-03-090
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being parts of
Sublot Nos. 16 and 17 in George E.
Dascomb’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 337,
as shown by the recorded plat of said
Subdivision in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page 56 of Cuyahoga County Records,
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at
a point
in the
Southerly line of Hough Avenue, N.E.,
at the Northwesterly corner of land
conveyed to Minard A. Possons, by
deed dated July 23, 1895, and recorded in Volume 600 of Deeds Page 444
of Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Southerly along the Westerly line of
land so conveyed to Minard A. Possons, 134.35 feet to the Southwesterly
corner thereof; thence Westerly on a
line parallel to the Southerly line of
Hough Avenue, N.E., to the Southeasterly corner of land conveyed to
Mary Etta Jackson and James L.
Jackson, wife and husband, to Ida M.
Boyle, by deed dated May 15, 1906
and recorded in Volume 1026 of
Deeds, Page 502 of Cuyahoga County
Records; thence Northerly along the
Easterly line of land so conveyed to
Ida M. Boyle, 134.35 feet to the
Southerly line of Hough Avenue, N.E.,
thence Easterly, along the Southerly
line of Hough Avenue, N.E., to the
place of beginning, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to restrictions of
record and zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of

The City Record
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1452-99.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1619 and 1623 East 82
Street to Jacqueline Flournoy.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 106-23-002
and
106-23-003,
as
more
fully
described in Section 2 below, to
Jacqueline Flournoy.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 106-23-002
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
391, and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning at a point 630 feet Westerly from the Westerly line of East
86th Street (formerly
known as
Marcy Avenue) and 1,175.67 feet

1651

27
Southerly from the Southerly line of
Wade Park Avenue, N.E., (formerly
known
as Wade Park Avenue);
thence Southerly parallel with East
86th Street, 42.50 feet; thence Westerly and parallel with Wade Park
Avenue, N.E., about 150 feet to the
Easterly line of East 82nd Street (formerly known as Genesse Street);
thence Northerly along the Easterly
line of East 82nd Street, 42.50 feet;
thence Easterly and parallel with
Wade Park Avenue, N.E., about 148.68
feet to the place of beginning and
being further known as the Southerly 36.50 feet to the Sublot No. 45, and
the Northerly 6 feet of Sublot No. 22
in L.M. Southern’s proposed Wade
Park Subdivision of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 383 and
391, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
P.P. No. 106-23-003
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
391, bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 82nd Street (formerly Genesee
Avenue), at a point distant 1218.17
feet Southerly, measured along said
Easterly line from the Southerly line
of Wade Park Avenue, N.E., (formerly Wade Park Avenue); thence
Easterly on a line drawn parallel to
the Southerly line of Wade Park
Avenue, N.E., about 149.32 feet to the
Westerly line of land conveyed to
Julia A. Seuffert by deed dated September 18, 1890, and recorded in Volume 483, Page 462 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Southerly
along said Westerly line 40 feet;
thence Westerly on a line drawn
parallel to the Southerly line of
Wade Park Avenue, N.E., about 150
feet to the said Easterly line of East
82nd Street; thence Northerly along
the Easterly line of East 82nd Street
about 40 feet, to the place of beginning and being further known as
the Southerly 38 feet to Parcel No.
22 and the Northerly 2 feet of Parcel No. 23 in L.M. Southern’s Proposed Wade Park Avenue Allotment
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lots Nos. 383 and 391.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed shall contain such provisions as
may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

28
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1453-99.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1795 and 1791 East
87th Street to Bobbie Laster and
Geraldine Laster.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 119-05-058
and
119-05-059,
as
more
fully
described in Section 2 below, to
Bobbie Laster and Geraldine Laster.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 119-05-058
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 40 feet of the Northerly
126 feet of the Westerly 110 feet of
Sublot No. 49 in P.H. Babcock’s Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 400, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 15
of Maps, Page 38 of Cuyahoga County Records, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
P.P. No. 119-05-059
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Sublot No. 49 in P.H. Babcock’s Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 400 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 15
of Maps, Page 38 of Cuyahoga County
Records
and
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 87th Street (formerly Brookfield) at a point 42 feet Southerly
from the Northwesterly corner of
Sublot No. 49; thence Southerly
along said Easterly line of East 87th
Street, 44 feet; thence Easterly on a
line parallel with the Northerly line

The City Record
of Sublot No. 49, 110 feet; thence
Northerly on a line parallel with the
Easterly line of East 87th Street, 44
feet; thence Westerly 110 feet to the
place of beginning, as appears by
said plat.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1454-99.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 8122, 8124, 8126, and
8128 Wade Park to Eaton N. Jones
and Keesha M. Jones.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell

1652

August 18, 1999
Permanent Parcel No(s). 106-19-021
and
106-19-022,
as
more
fully
described in Section 2 below, to
Eaton N. Jones and Keesha M.
Jones.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 106-19-021
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
10 and the Easterly 4 feet of Sublot
No. 9 in George M. Hicks’ Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 391 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 14 of
Maps, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and together forming a
parcel of land 46 feet front on the
Southerly side of Wade Park Avenue, N.E., and extending back of
equal width 150 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
P.P. No. 106-19-022
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
11 in George M. Hicks’ Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 391, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 14 of Maps,
Page
3
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 42 feet front on
the Southerly side of Wade Park
Avenue N.E., and extending back of
equal width 150 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

August 18, 1999
Ord. No. 1455-99.
By Councilman Melena (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an amendment
to City Contract No. 50991 with Thermagon, Inc. to modify various provisions of the lease.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into an amendment to Enterprise Zone Agreement,
City
Contract
No.
50991
between the City and Thermagon,
Inc. (“Amendment”), to amend the
Enterprise
Zone
Agreement
in
accordance with the amended executive summary contained in File
No. 1455-99-A.
All other terms and conditions
contained in the original Enterprise
Zone Agreement shall remain the
same.
Section 2. That the Amendment
herein authorized shall be prepared
by the Director of Law and shall
contain such terms and conditions
as said Director deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1456-99.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
upgrade the fencing to be installed
as part of the West 61st Street
Retaining Wall Project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to
upgrade the fencing to be installed
as part of the West 61st Street
Retaining Wall Project to provide
for the erection of decorative fencing atop the retaining wall.
Section 2. That the costs of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed Fourteen Thousand Dollars ($14,000.00) and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.

The City Record
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1457-99.
By Councilman Melena (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic
Development to enter into a contract with Ripcho Studio, Inc. to provide
economic
development
assistance to partially finance the
land and building acquisition, demolition and construction of an addition to the real property located at
7630
Lorain
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
with Ripcho Studio, Inc. to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the land and building acquisition, demolition and construction of an addition to the real
property located at 7630 Lorain
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 2. That the term of said
loan shall be in accordance with the
terms as set forth in the Executive
Summary contained in File No. 145799-A.
Section 3. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed One Hundred and Fifty-Six Thousand Dollars
($156,000.00), and shall be paid from
Fund No. 17 SF 008, Request No.
1014.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept the collateral
as set forth in the Executive Summary contained in the file referenced in Section 2 of this ordinance
in order to secure repayment of said
loan. Any security instrument shall
be prepared and approved by the
Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of the
loan
and to
deposit said monies in Fund No. 17
SF 006.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and expend such fees to
cover costs incurred in the preparation of the loan application, closing
and servicing of the loan. Such fees
shall be deposited to and expended
from Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees
Fund.

1653

29
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1459-99.
By Councilman Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Bellaire-Puritas Festival Committee to stretch a banner across
Puritas at the intersection of Puritas and West 140th Street for the
period from September 3, 1999 to
October 11, 1999, inclusive, publicizing the Bellaire-Puritas Fall Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section
623.13 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to the Bellaire-Puritas Festival Committee to
install, maintain and remove a banner across Puritas at the intersection of Puritas and West 140th
Street for the period from September
3, 1999 to October 11, 1999, inclusive.
Said banners shall be approved by
the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
banners will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banners and said banners shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

30
Ord. No. 1460-99.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to The Medical Center Company to encroach into the
right-of-way of East Blvd., Bellflower Rd., Juniper Rd. and Ford
Dr., for the Phase II installation and
extension of a chilled water line.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service hereby is authorized
to issue a permit, revocable at the
will of Council, and assignable by
the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to The Medical Center Company, 2250 Circle Drive, Cleveland,
Ohio 44106-4903, its successors and
assigns, for the construction, use
and maintenance of a Phase II
chilled water line extension, which
will encroach into the right-of-way
of East Boulevard, Bellflower Road,
Juniper Road and Ford Drive, at the
locations
more
fully
shown
by
Exhibit “A” filed in the office of the
Clerk of the Council of the City of
Cleveland, Ohio, and also known as
File Number 1460-99-A.
Section 2. That said Phase II
chilled water line extension will be
placed in the public right-of-way as
aforesaid in Section 1, and will be
constructed
in
accordance
with
plans and specifications approved
by the Commissioner of Engineering
and Construction.
Section 3. That the permit herein
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall be issued
only when in the opinion of the
Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified
against any and all loss which may
result from said permit.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1461-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into a contract with Cleveland Letter Service to produce, address, sort
and deliver bulk mailings to the U.S.
Post Office for Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into contract with Cleveland Letter Service
to produce, address, sort and deliv-

The City Record
er bulk mailings to the U.S. Post
Office for Cleveland City Council for
a period of one (1) year commencing September 1, 1999, with an
option to renew for an additional
one (1) year, exercisable at the
Clerk’s discretion.
Section 2. That the annual cost of
said agreement shall not exceed
Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00)
and shall be payable from Fund No.
01 Subclass 01001.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1462-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into a contract with The Legal News
Publishing Co. for the production
and printing of ward newsletters for
Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into contract with The Legal News Publishing Co. for the production and printing of ward newsletters for Cleveland City Council for a period of one
(1) year commencing September 1,
1999, with an option to renew for an
additional one (1) year, exercisable
at the Clerk’s discretion.
Section 2. That the annual cost of
said agreement shall not exceed Seventy-Five
Thousand
Dollars
($75,000.00) and shall be payable
from Fund No. 01 Subclass 01001.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1463-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into a contract with Brothers Printing Co. for the production, printing
and delivery of stationary items for
Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

1654

August 18, 1999
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into contract with Brothers Printing Co. for
the production, printing and delivery of stationary items, including
letterhead,
envelopes,
business
cards, and note pads for Cleveland
City Council for a period of one (1)
year commencing September 1, 1999,
with an option to renew for an additional one (1) year, exercisable at
the Clerk’s discretion.
Section 2. That the annual cost of
said agreement shall not exceed
Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00)
and shall be payable from Fund No.
01 Subclass 01001.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1464-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Wirenet to perform predevelopment work in advance of
environmental remediation of the
former P.O.C. brewery located in
Ward 18 of the City of Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Wirenet to perform pre-development work in advance of environmental remediation of the former
P.O.C. brewery located in Ward 18
of the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the costs of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed Six Thousand Dollars
($6,000.00) and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

August 18, 1999
Ord. No. 1465-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the President of Council to enter
into an agreement with Cleveland
State University, College of Urban
Affairs, to provide professional services to assist in the development of
Neighborhood
Priority
Plans
for
Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the the President
of Council is hereby authorized to
enter into an agreement with Cleveland State University, College of
Urban Affairs, to provide professional services to assist in the development
and
implementation
of
Neighborhood
Priority
Plans
for
Cleveland City Council.
Section 2. That the costs of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed Forty-Five Thousand Dollars ($45,000.00) and shall be paid
from Fund No. 01 SF 001.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1466-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 18. (Debra Auld).
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 18; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 18: Debra
Auld.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3. That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency

The City Record
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1467-99.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling
in
Ward
14.
(Pedro
Rodriguez).
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 14; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 14: Pedro
Rodriguez.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3. That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1487-99.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at Kosciuszko Avenue
to George Edwards.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired

1655

31
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 107-07-040,
107-07-041 and 107-07-042, as more
fully described in Section 2 below,
to George Edwards.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 107-07-040
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
57 and part of a 12 foot alley vacated by City Ordinance 1937-38 in the
Posen Subdivision of a part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot Nos. 375
and 376 as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 20 of Maps, Page 29
of Cuyahoga County Records and
together being 30 feet front on the
Northerly
side
of
Kosciuszko
Avenue, N.E., and extending back
between parallel lines 105 feet to
the center line of said vacated alley,
as appears by said plat.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
P. P. No. 107-07-041
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and bounded and described as
follows:
To wit: Known as being Sublot
No. 58 in the Posen Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot Nos. 375 and 376 in said City,
said Sublot No. 58 has a frontage of
35 feet on the Northerly side of
Kosciuszko Avenue (formerly Hoffman Street) and extends 99 feet
deep to an alley, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 20 of Maps,
Page
29
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and that
part
of the
Southerly half of a 12 foot alley
lying Northerly of said Sublot No.
58, vacated by Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland passed September
12, 1938 and being Ordinance No.
1937-38.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
P. P. No. 107-07-042
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
59 and the Westerly 5 feet of Sublot
No. 60 and the Southerly one-half of
a vacated 12 foot alley, immediately to the rear, in Joseph Hoffman’s
“Posen” Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot Nos. 375
and 376 as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 20 of Maps, Page 29
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
together forming one parcel of land
40 feet front on the Northerly side
of (Hoffman Street) now known as
Kosciuszko Avenue and extending
back of equal width 105 feet, as

32
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1522-99.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Cleveland Browns
Race on September 11, 1999, sponsored by Hermes Sports & Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of a Cleveland Browns
Run sponsored by Hermes Sports &
Events, on September 11, 1999 starting at Erieside & W. 3rd St., go
Erieside east to E. 9th St., E. 9th St.
to
Lakeside
Avenue,
Lakeside
Avenue to W. 3rd St., W. 3rd St. to
St. Clair Avenue, St. Clair Avenue to
W. 9th St., W. 9th St. to Huron,
Huron to E. 9th St., E. 9th St. to
Erieside, Erieside to W. 3rd St. and
finish, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police or safety forces as may be necessary in
order to protect the participants in
the event. Said permit shall further
provide that the City of Cleveland
shall be fully indemnified from any

The City Record
and all liability resulting from the
issuance of the same, to the event
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1523-99.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the 11th Congressional District Caucus to stretch banners at Stokes
Boulevard at Cedar Road (westerly
and easterly); and at Kinsman
Avenue
at
East
113th
Street
(northerly and southerly) for the
period of August 11, 1999 to September 11, 1999 inclusive, publicizing this special event.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to the 11th
Congressional District Caucus, to
install, maintain and remove banners at Stokes Boulevard at Cedar
Road (westerly and easterly; Cleveland Public Power Pole Numbers
88329 and 88330) and at Kinsman
Avenue
at
East
113th
Street
(southerly and northerly; Cleveland
Public Power Pole Numbers C30-2
and C30-30), for the period from
August 11, 1999 to September 11,
1999, inclusive. Said banners shall
be approved by the Director of Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of las or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banners and said banners shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

1656

August 18, 1999
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1468-99.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution urging
Congress to enact H.R. 623 amending the Energy Policy and Conservation Act to eliminate certain regulations concerning plumbing supplies.
Whereas, Congress enacted the
National Energy Policy and Conservation Act in 1992 to provide for the
conservation of water throughout
the United States; and
Whereas, pursuant to that Act,
Congress mandated that only certain types of plumbing fixtures
could be sold and installed post-1995,
including low-flow toilets and particular showerheads; and
Whereas, some of the regulated
plumbing fixtures have been found
to be inefficient and ineffective in
the effort to conserve water; and
Whereas,
H.R.
623,
currently
pending in Congress, would amend
the National Energy Policy and
Conservation Act to eliminate some
of the stringent regulations concerning the sale and installation of
certain
plumbing
fixtures;
now
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council of the
City of Cleveland urges Congress to
enact H.R. 623 to amend the National Energy Policy and Conservation Act to eliminate some of the
stringent regulations concerning the
sale and installation of certain
plumbing fixtures.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby requested to transmit
a copy of this resolution to the following members of Congress: Dennis
Kucinich;
Stephanie
Tubbs
Jones; George Voinovich and Mike
DeWine.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1469-99.
By Councilmen Jackson, Coats,
Westbrook, Lewis, Polensek, Rybka,
Sweeney, Cintron, Cimperman, Zone,
Jones, White, Robinson, Johnson,
Britt, Patmon, Willis, Gordon, O’Malley, Melena and Dolan.
An emergency resolution urging
the Administration, NAACP, Cleveland Police Department and the religious, civic, and business communities to support Cleveland City Council’s request to the Administration to
void any and all permits that would
allow the KKK to rally on August
21, 1999.
Whereas,
the
Ku
Klux
Klan
(KKK) has applied for and was
granted a permit to conduct a rally
in downtown Cleveland on August
21, 1999; and

August 18, 1999
Whereas, the First Amendment
of the United States Constitution
protects the rights of free speech;
and
Whereas,
on
the
same
date,
August 21, 1999, the opening game
for the Cleveland Browns football
team will take place downtown in
its new stadium, and the Black Family Expo is to take place downtown
at the Cleveland Convention Center;
and
Whereas, there could be over
100,000 people in downtown Cleveland on August 21, 1999; and
Whereas, the safety forces and
resources
of
the
City
will
be
stretched to its limits on August 21,
1999, to provide for the safety and
welfare of the City; and
Whereas, permits have not been
granted for other events to take
place on August 21, 1999 because of
the demand on City resources and
the Police Department; and
Whereas,
recent
publicity
and
media coverage have added to the
adverse attitude to the KKK rally;
and
Whereas, the NAACP and others
are
proposing
a
demonstration
against the KKK at the same time,
date, and place of the KKK rally;
and
Whereas, recent controversies will
add additional strain to the Police
Department that will already be
overextended on August 21, 1999;
and
Whereas, the atmosphere of the
City has become so charged and
volatile since the original proper
granting of the permit for the
KKK’s rally; and
Whereas, the presence of the
KKK in Cleveland on August 21,
1999, along with the volatile atmosphere could result in disorder and
violence; and
Whereas, the public safety and
welfare is at risk if the KKK is
allowed to rally on August 21, 1999;
and
Whereas, at this time the public
safety and welfare outweigh the
KKK’s right to rally on August 21,
1999; now, therefore
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Administration
of the City of Cleveland is requested to void any and all permits that
would allow the KKK to rally on
August 21, 1999.
Section 2. That the NAACP, Cleveland Police Department, along with
religious, civic, and business communities support Cleveland City
Council’s request to the Administration to void any and all permits that
would allow the KKK to rally on
August 21, 1999.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is hereby requested to transmit
a copy of this resolution to Mayor
Michael R. White.
Section 4. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1470-99.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the stock
transfer of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit to 791 E. 185th St., 1st
Fl. & Bsmt., and repealing Res. No.
1739-98, objecting to said stock
transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the stock transfer of of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit to 791 E.
185th St., 1st Fl. & Bsmt., by Res.
No. 1739-98, adopted September 28,
1998; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw
its
objection
to
the
above stock transfer and consents
to said stock transfer based upon
and pursuant to a cooperation
agreement signed July 15, 1999, a
copy of which is in the file for this
address with the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
stock transfer of a D1, D2, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit to 791 E. 185th
St., 1st Fl. & Bsmt., be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Res. No.
1739-98, containing said objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to
the immediate stock transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1471-99.
By Councilman Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 3469 West 117th St., Suite
A, 1st Fl. & Bsmt.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of this state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

1657

33
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare in that pursuant
to Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
1240151-0005,
owned
by
Capone’s
Tavern
Inc.,
DBACapone’s,
3469
West 117th St., Suite A, 1st Fl. &
Bsmt., Cleveland, Ohio 44111, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a
letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing
be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1472-99.
By Councilman Robinson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to 12408 Union Ave.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to Permit No. 9152984, Union
Beverage & Deli Inc., DBAUnion
Deli, 12408 Union Ave.,\Cleveland,
Ohio 44105; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and

34
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to Permit No. 9152984, Union
Beverage & Deli Inc., DBAUnion
Deli, 12408 Union Ave., Cleveland,
Ohio 44105, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1473-99.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 466 E.
125th St., 1st Fl. & Bsmt.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
6394819, Nick Muntaser Inc., DBA
Independent Market, 466 E. 125th St.,
1st Fl. & Bsmt., Cleveland, Ohio
44108, to Permit No. 7638494, Sabry
Inc., 466 E. 125th St., 1st Fl. & Bsmt.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and

The City Record
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
6394819, Nick Muntaser Inc., DBA
Independent Market, 466 E. 125th St.,
1st Fl. & Bsmt., Cleveland, Ohio
44108, to Permit No. 7638494, Sabry
Inc., 466 E. 125th St., 1st Fl. & Bsmt.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1474-99.
By Councilman Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the stock transfer of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to 3111 E. 93rd
St.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Con-

1658

August 18, 1999
trol of an application for the stock
transfer of a C2 and C2X Liquor Per mit to Permit No. 5235615, Little
Eagle Inc., DBALittle Eagle, 3111
East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44104; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the stock
transfer of a C2 and C2X Liquor Per mit to Permit No. 5235615, Little
Eagle Inc., DBALittle Eagle, 3111
East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

August 18, 1999
Res. No. 1475-99.
By Councilman Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 3477-79 W. 117th St., 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit
to continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws,
regulations or local ordinances of
this state, and that this objection
is based on other legal grounds as
set forth in Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare in that pursuant
to Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
2691195,
Ferran
Corp.,
DBA Sunshine Market, 3477-79 W. 117th St.,
1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44111, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a
letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing
be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1476-99.
By Councilman Rybka
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 5407 Fleet Ave., 1st
Fl. & Bsmt.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

The City Record
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit
to continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws,
regulations or local ordinances of
this state, and that this objection
is based on other legal grounds as
set forth in Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare in that pursuant
to Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the
renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 3160622, owned
by Ghazi Corp., DBA Ghazi Market,
5407 Fleet Ave., 1st Fl. & Bsmt.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application
in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a
letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing
be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1477-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 3153 W. 73rd
St.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 6459673, Nour
Corp., DBARite Shop, 3153 W. 73rd
St., Cleveland, Ohio 44102, to Permit

1659

35
No. 8861048, 3135 W. 73rd St., Inc.,
3153 W. 73rd St., Cleveland, Ohio
44102; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does
hereby record its objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
6459673, Nour Corp., DBA Rite Shop,
3153 W. 73rd St., Cleveland, Ohio
44102, to Permit No. 8861048, 3135
W. 73rd St., Inc., 3153 W. 73rd St.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application
in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

36
Res. No. 1478-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 10630 Berea Road
rear, 2nd Fl. & Patio.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of this state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare in that pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8840360003, owned by
10630 Berea Road Inc., DBAU41A
Bar 3, 10630 Berea Road rear, 2nd
Fl. & Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a
letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing
be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1479-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 1121315 Detroit Avenue, 1st Fl., Bsmt. and
Patio.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

The City Record
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of this state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare in that pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 2472235,
owned by 11213 Detroit Avenue Inc.,
11213-15 Detroit Ave., 1st Fl., Bsmt.
and Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a
letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing
be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1480-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 9501 Denison Ave.,
1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor per-

1660

August 18, 1999
mit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of this state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare in that pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 4410995, owned by Junak
Enterprises, Inc., DBAAndy’s Hot
Spot, 9501 Denison Ave., 1st Fl.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a
letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing
be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1481-99.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 831 E. 140th
St.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 3700511, Sabrina A. Head, DBAEast 140th Food &
Beverage, 831 E. 140th St., Cleveland, Ohio 44110, to Permit No.
0300140, Aspinwall Market Inc., DBA
Ten Market, 831 E. 140th St., Cleveland, Ohio 44110; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and

August 18, 1999
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 3700511, Sabrina A. Head, DBAEast 140th Food &
Beverage, 831 E. 140th St., Cleveland, Ohio 44110, to Permit No.
0300140, Aspinwall Market Inc., DBA
Ten Market, 831 E. 140th St., Cleveland, Ohio 44110 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1482-99.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C1 Liquor
Permit to 3228 W. 65th St.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 4289576, Jime Corp., DBA
Shop 4 Less, 3228 W. 65th St., Cleveland, Ohio 44102; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and

The City Record
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 4289576, Jime Corp., DBA
Shop 4 Less, 3228 W. 65th St., Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1483-99.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 4409
Payne Ave., 1st Fl.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
5382960, M & L Salami Inc., DBA
Tommys Market, 4409 Payne Ave.,
1st Fl. , Cleveland, Ohio 44103, to Per-

1661

37
mit No. 0072688, Affs Market Inc.,
DBATommys Market, 4409 Payne
Ave., 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44103;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does
hereby record its objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit from Permit No.
5382960, M & L Salami Inc., DBA
Tommys Market, 4409 Payne Ave.,
1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44103, to
Permit No. 0072688, Affs Market
Inc., DBA Tommys Market, 4409
Payne Ave., 1st Fl., Cleveland,
Ohio 44103, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

38
Res. No. 1484-99.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the stock transfer of a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to 1229 W. Sixth St., 1st Fl. & Bsmt.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the stock
transfer of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit to Permit No.
1840154, CRVInc., 1229 W. Sixth St.,
1st Fl. & Bsmt., Cleveland, Ohio
44114; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the stock
transfer of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit to Permit No.
1840154, CRVInc., 1229 W. Sixth St.,
1st Fl. & Bsmt., Cleveland, Ohio
44114 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Res. No. 1485-99.
By Councilman Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 Liquor Permit to 13000 Lorain
Ave.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 1038334, Bru-Lop
Corp., DBACornerstone Tavern, 1300
Lorain Ave. & Bsmt., Cleveland,
Ohio 44111, to Permit No. 9055615,
Thirteen Thousand Lorain Inc., DBA
Cornerstone Cafe, 13000 Lorain Ave.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 1038334, Bru-Lop
Corp., DBACornerstone Tavern, 1300
Lorain Ave. & Bsmt., Cleveland,
Ohio 44111, to Permit No. 9055615,
Thirteen Thousand Lorain Inc., DBA
Cornerstone Cafe, 13000 Lorain Ave.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

1662

August 18, 1999
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1486-99.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 11025 Ashbury Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of this state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare in that pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
09784490005, owned by Brooklyn Corner
Foods
Inc.,
11025
Ashbury
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a
letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing
be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

August 18, 1999
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 257-99.
By Councilmen Robinson, Jones and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located at the City of Cleveland’s
municipal parking lot between East
139th - East 140th Streets and Kinsman Avenue to Mt. Pleasant Now
Development Corporation.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Relieved of Committees on
Public Parks, Property and Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 957-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 603.02, 604.01, 604.03 and
604.04, and 604.99 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as amended by various ordinances,
relating to vicious dogs.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Recommended
by Committees on Public Safety,
Legislation, Finance; when amended
as follows:
1. In the title, line 2, after “604.01”
insert “, 604.02,”.
2. In Section 1, between lines 6
and 7, and in Section 2, between
lines 6 and 7, insert the following:
“Section 604.02, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2884-89, passed December 4, 1989,”.
3. In Section 1, in existing line 6
and in Section 2, in existing line 6,
strike “June 16” and insert in lieu
thereof “June 19”.
4.
In
Section
1,
at
Section
603.02(a), at the end, strike the period and insert in lieu thereof “except
when the dog is legally engaged in
training for the purpose of hunting,
herding, agility or dog competition
events, accompanied by the owner,
keeper, harborer, or a handler.”.
5. In Section 1, at Section 604.01,
strike division(k)(3) in its entirety
and insert in lieu thereof the following:
“(3) Belongs to a breed that is
commonly known as a “pit bull”
dog, the ownership, keeping, or harboring of such a breed of dog shall
be prima facie evidence of the ownership, keeping, or harboring of a
vicious dog.”.
6. In Section 1, after the text of
Section 604.01, insert the following:
“Section 604.02 Exemptions
(a) The provisions of this chapter
shall not include a police dog.
(b) Notwithstanding the definition
of a vicious dog in Section 604.01, no
dog may be declared vicious if:
(1) An injury or damage is sustained by a person who, at the time
such injury or damage was sustained, was committing a willful
trespass or other tort upon premises
occupied by the owner or keeper of
the dog, or was teasing, tormenting,
abusing or assaulting the dog or
was committing or attempting to
commit a crime;
(2) An injury or damage was sustained by a domestic animal which
at the time such injury or damage
was sustained was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the
dog or was trespassing upon premises occupied by the owner or keeper
of the dog; or

The City Record
(3) The dog was protecting or
defending a human being within the
immediate vicinity of the dog from
an unjustified attack or assault.
(4) The dog is:
A. within the confines or on the
property of the Cleveland Convention Center as defined in Section
133.12 or other premises classified as
assembly
use
structures
under
Group A-3 of the Ohio Basic Building Code; and
B. under the control and supervision of an owner who has entered
the dog in a show or exhibition in
the premises described in division
(b)(4)A. of this section.
(c) The owner, keeper or harborer of a vicious or dangerous dog is
not liable in damages for any
injury, death or loss to person or
property caused by such dog, if such
injury, death or loss was caused to
the person or property of an individual who, at the time, was committing or attempting to commit a
trespass or other criminal offense on
the property of the owner, keeper or
harborer or was committing or
attempting to commit a criminal
offense against any person, or was
teasing, tormenting, or abusing the
dog or the owner, keeper or harborer’s property.
(d) Dogs conforming to division
(k)(3) of Section 604.01 that are not
in violation of divisions (k)(1) or
(k)(2) of Section 604.01, that have
successfully completed any of the
following title certificates, awarded
from any of the authorized agencies,
shall be exempt from this section.
(1) The owner of the dog shall
provide a copy of the certificate to
the Dog Warden, who shall keep the
certificate on file. The certifcate
must contain the name of the individual dog, the name of the owner,
and a date noting when the title certificate was successfully completed.
(2) The owner shall submit a photograph of the dog to the Dog Warden, who shall keep the photograph
on file.
(3) The owner, keeper or harborer
shall have the dog tattooed
or
microchipped to secure positive identification, and shall submit to the Dog
Warden the microchip implantation
number or tattoo number assigned to
the dog. The Dog Warden shall keep
the documenttion on file.
(4) The owner shall submit proof
of a valid County License tag to the
Dog Warden at time of application
for exemption status.
(e) Acceptable Title certificates
are:
(1) Companion Dog;
(2) Canine Good Citizen;
(3) Temperament Test.
(f) Authorized agencies are any
member or sanctioned Kennel, Obedience, or Specialty club that is
authorized to hold conformation or
obedience shows under the official
guidelines as set forth by the American Kennel Club, United Kennel
Club, or Canadian Kennel Club, or
the American Temperament Test
Society.
(g) The Dog Warden, upon receiving all documentation pertinent to
the exemption status, shall issue
such dog an exemption tag. The
exemption tag fee is Ten Dollars
($10.00).
(h) The owner of an exempted
dog shall securely fasten the exemption tag to a substantial collar worn
by such dog at all times. A valid
County license tag shall also be
affixed to such collar at all times.
Such collar and tags may only be
removed if said dog is:

1663

39
(1) Actively engaged in lawful
hunting, or
(2) The dog is competing in a dog
show or other event where event
rules prohibit the dog from wearing
a collar and/or tags, or
(3) The dog is confined as defined
in division (a) of Section 604.03.
(i) The fee charged for replacement of a lost exemption tag shall
be Five Dollars ($5.00).”.
7. In Section 1, at Section 604.03,
strike lines 5 and 6 in their entirety and insert in lieu thereof the following: “is legally engaged in training for the purpose of hunting, herding,
agility
or
dog
competition
events, accompanied by the owner,
keeper, harborer, or a handler:”.
8. In Section 1, at Section 604.03,
strike division (a) in its entirety;
lines 1, 2, 3 and 4 of division (b);
and division (d) in its entirety, and
insert, respectively, in lieu thereof
the following:
“(a) While the dog is on the
premises of the owner, keeper, harborer or handler, it must be securely confined indoors, or in a locked
pen which has a top, the dimensions
of which should be at least five feet
by ten feet, and must have secure
sides and a secure top. If such structure should have no bottom secured
to the sides, the sides must be
imbedded into the ground no less
than two feet. Such structure must
be suitable to prevent the entry of
young children and designed to prevent the dog from escaping, or in a
locked fenced yard which fence is
at least six feet high. Any enclosure
must provide protection from the
elements for the dog.
(b) While the dog is off the
premises of the owner, keeper or
harborer, keep it on a substantial
collar and leash or tether not
exceeding six feet in length and
additionally shall do the following:
(d) A dog declared to be dangerous or vicious by violating division
(b) of Section 604.01 or divisions
(k)(1) or (k)(2) of Section 604.01
shall, at the expense of such owner,
keeper, or harborer, be tattooed or
microchipped to secure positive identification.”.
9. In Section 1, at Section 604.04
insert a new division (c) to read as
follows:
“(c) Upon request of the Dog Warden, the owner of a vicious dog
shall produce proof of liability
insurance forthwith. Failure to furnish proof of liability insurance may
result in the impounding of the dog
by the Dog Warden until such proof
is furnished.”;
and reletter existing divisions (c)
and (d) to new divisions “(d)” and
“(e)”.
10. In Section 1, at existing Section 604.04(c), at the end after the
period insert the following: “Such
sign should also include a visual
symbol for any children or people
who cannot read words.”.
11.
In
Section
1,
at
Section
604.99(a), at the end after the period insert the following: “For repeat
offenders of animal control laws
under Sections 603.02 and 603.04, the
Court may require the owner to
attend a class on responsible pet
ownership and dog behavior.”.
12. In Section 1, at Section 604.99,
insert new divisions (d), (e), (f),
(g), and (h) to read, respectively, as
follows:
(d) Any owner that is found to
be in violation of division (d) of
Section 604.03 shall be found guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree.

40
(e) Any owner that is found to
be in violation of division (d) of
Section 604.02 shall be found guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(f) Any owner that is found to
be in violation of division (h) of
Section 604.02 shall be found guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(g) Any owner found to own,
keep, or harbor a dog wearing a fictitious, altered, or invalid exemption
tag shall be found guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(h) Any exempted dog conforming
to division (k)(3) of Section 604.01
that is found to be in violation of
divisions (k)(1) or (k)(2) of Section
604.01 shall forfeit its exemption status permanently.”;
and reletter existing divisions (d),
(e), (f) and (g), respectively, to new
divisions “(i)”, “(j)”, “(k)” and “(l)”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1119-99.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of rock salt, for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Service, for a period of one year,
with one option to renew for one
consecutive year.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1206-99.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to AES Management
Corporation to encroach into the
right-of-way of Shepard Ct. S.E.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1258-99.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request.)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of labor and materials necessary
to install security equipment, for the
Director of Finance, on behalf of the
Clerk of Courts, for a period not to
exceed two years.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1259-99.
By Councilmen Willis and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of labor and materials necessary
to clean and test insulators, bushings
and lightning arrestors, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period not to exceed two years.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1260-99.
By Councilmen Willis and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to provide landscaping and

The City Record
snow removal services at various
locations, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period not to
exceed two years.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1261-99.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary for the service, repair and
maintenance for voice recording
equipment, for the various divisions
of the Department of Port Control,
for a period not to exceed two
years.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1262-99.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Rockwell Avenue N.E.
hereinafter described.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1263-99.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Star Court S.W. hereinafter described.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1264-99.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of various automobile, van
and truck parts, including labor if
necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service, for a period not to
exceed two years.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1265-99.
By Councilmen Coats and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to apply for and accept a grant
from the Public Health Service,
Department of Health and Human
Services for the Metropolitan Medical Response
System
Development Program and to enter into
contract for the purchase of equipment and training services for the
Program.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1267-99.
By Councilmen Gordon, Jackson,
Robinson and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located on West 46th Street and
West 47th Street to Rysar Properties, Inc.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
City
Planning,
Finance,
when
amended as follows:

1664

August 18, 1999
1. In the Title, at line 5, delete
“Rysar Properties, Inc.”, and add in
lieu thereof, “Old Brooklyn Community Development Corporation, or its
designee.”; and,
2. In Section 2, at line 3, delete
“Rysar Properties, Inc.”, and add in
lieu thereof, “Old Brooklyn Community Development Corporation, or its
designee,”
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1268-99.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Jackson, Robinson and Johnson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
United Chrysalis, LTD to provide
economic development assistance to
acquire and renovate real property
at 1294 East 55th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1269-99.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Jackson, Robinson and Johnson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Chrysalis, LTD
to provide for a ten year abatement
for real estate taxes as an incentive
to acquire and renovate real property
located at 1294 East 55th Street
located in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1288-99.
By Councilmen Willis and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more architects
and/or engineers or one or more
firms of architects and/or engineers,
to provide professional services to
assist in the design and construction
of capital projects for the Divisions
of Water, Cleveland Public Power
and Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities,
Finance,
Law;
Recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance, when amended as
follows:
1. Insert a new Section 2 to read
as follows:
“Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities shall provide a
report to the Clerk of Council on the
architects and/or engineers selected
under this ordinance and shall also
provide a biannual report to the
Clerk of Council with respect to the
progress of capital projects.”.
2. Renumber existing Sections 2
and 3 as new “Section 3” and “Section 4”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

The City Record

August 18, 1999
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 1207-99.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate portions
of East 82nd Street and Betts Court
S.E.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
MOTION
By Councilman Gordon, seconded
by
Councilman
Cimperman
and
unanimously
carried
that
the
absence of Councilman Patricia J.
Britt, Councilman Kenneth L. Johnson, and Councilman Edward W.
Rybka be and is hereby authorized.
The Council adjourned at 6:25 p.m.
to meet on Monday, September 13,
1999, at 7:00 p.m.

Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL
August 11, 1999
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, August 11,
1999, at 11:00 a.m., with Director
Carter presiding.
Present: Director Carter, Directors
Carmody, Konicek, Acting Directors
Borokhovich, Owens, Director Whitlow, Acting Directors Smith, Miller,
Directors Hudecek and Patterson.
Absent: Mayor White, Directors
Warren and Axelrod.
Others: Myrna Branche, Acting
Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies. Laura A. Williams, Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolutions were adopted.
Resolution No. 531-99.
By Director Carmody.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authority of Section
737.41 of the Ohio Revised Code,
passed November 11, 1994, and Ordinance Nos. 1249-95 and 275-97, passed
by the Cleveland City Council on
September 25, 1995 and March 24,
1997, respectively, Syscon Justice
Systems, Ltd. is hereby selected
upon nomination of the Director of
Finance from a list of data processing services firms, determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Finance as qualified
and available to be employed by
contract for the purpose of obtaining the professional services and
software necessary to automate the
creation of and the retrieval of
information related to the monitoring of probationers’ progress toward

compliance with probation conditions ordered by the court, and to
achieve Year 2000 compliance.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Finance, on behalf of the
Cleveland Municipal Court, hereby
is requested to enter into a written
contract with Syscon Justice Systems, Ltd. for such services and
products based on its proposal dated
March 20, 1998, except as herein
modified, which contract shall provide that the fee shall not exceed
$244,697.00, shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, and shall include
such other provisions as the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Directors Borokhovich, Owens, Director Whitlow, Acting Directors Smith, Miller, Directors Hudecek and Patterson.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White, Directors
Warren and Axelrod.
Resolution No. 532-99.
By Director Balraj.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Dicar Corporation for the following: Bunker Gear Suits (Items No. 1,
2, 3, 4A, 5 and 6B) for the Division
of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Department of Port Control,
received on the 30th day of October
1998, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 609-98, passed June 15,
1998 which on the basis of the order
quantity would amount to $20,631.00
is hereby approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Port Control is hereby requested to
enter into contract for such items.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Directors Borokhovich, Owens, Director Whitlow, Acting Directors Smith, Miller, Directors Hudecek and Patterson.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White, Directors
Warren and Axelrod.
Resolution No. 533-99.
By Director Jackson.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 788-99, passed
June 14, 1999, by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to lease property located
at 5806 Clark Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio, 44102, also known as Permanent Parcel Number 006-16-006, from
Michalske Printing Company, for a
term of ten years, with two options
to renew for additional ten year
terms, for the public purpose of
developing additional parking for
the Clark Recreation Center; and
Whereas, said Ordinance No. 78899 provided that the rent for the
lease shall be at a price not less
than the fair market value as determined by the Board of Control; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Ordinance No. 788-99,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on June 14, 1999, the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, is hereby authorized to
lease property located at 5806 Clark
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio, 44102, also
known as Permanent Parcel Number
006-16-006, from Michalske Printing
Company, for a term of ten years,
with two options to renew for additional ten year terms, for the public
purpose of developing additional
parking for the Clark Recreation
Center and that the rent for the
lease is hereby fixed at One Dollar

1665

41
($1.00) per year, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value.
Be it further resolved that the
Mayor of the City of Cleveland and
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties are authorized to complete and execute any documents
necessary and appropriate to effect
the consent to the lease hereby
approved, which documents shall
contain such additional terms and
conditions as the Director of Law
shall deem necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Directors Borokhovich, Owens, Director Whitlow, Acting Directors Smith, Miller, Directors Hudecek and Patterson.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White, Directors
Warren and Axelrod.
Resolution No. 534-99.
By Director Jackson.
Whereas, Resolution No. 120-99
adopted March 10, 1999, authorized
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties to enter into contract
with WTW Architects for the consulting services necessary for the
Highland
Park
Cemetery
Main
Office Building Renovation; and
Whereas, WTW Architects declined to execute a contract to provide these services; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Ordinance No. 1422-98
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on December 7, 1998, the
firm of Ralph Tyler, Inc. is hereby
selected upon the nomination of the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, to provide the architectural and engineering services necessary for the Highland Park Cemetery Main Office Building Renovation.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties hereby is authorized to
enter into a written contract with
Ralph Tyler, Inc. based upon its proposal dated January 15, 1999, which
contract shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall include
such additional provisions as he
deems necessary to benefit and protect the public interest.
The fees for services to be performed under the contract authorized hereby shall not exceed Thirty Eight Thousand Five Hundred
and
No/100
Dollars
($38,500.00).
Reimbursable expenses shall not
exceed Six Thousand Four Hundred
and No/100 Dollars ($6,400.00). The
total compensation to the Consultant
shall not exceed Forty Four Thousand Nine Hundred and No/100 Dollars ($44,900.00).
Be it further resolved that Resolution No. 120-99 adopted by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland on March 10, 1999 authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
contract with WTW Architects is
hereby rescinded.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Directors Borokhovich, Owens, Director Whitlow, Acting Directors Smith, Miller, Directors Hudecek and Patterson.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White, Directors
Warren and Axelrod.
Resolution No. 535-99.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reuti-

42
lization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 133-22-016 (Northern part of) located at East 88th Street in Ward 2; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Shafone Palmer, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 2 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Shafone
Palmer for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 133-22-016
(Northern part of) located at East
88th Street, in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Directors Borokhovich, Owens, Director Whitlow, Acting Directors Smith, Miller, Directors Hudecek and Patterson.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White, Directors
Warren and Axelrod.
Resolution No. 536-99.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 133-22-016 (Southern part of)
located at East 88th Street in Ward
2; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, David Williams, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and

The City Record
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 2 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City
of
Cleveland,
with
David
Williams for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 13322-016 (Southern part of) located at
East 88th Street, in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00,
which
amount
is
hereby
determined to be not less than the
Fair Market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Directors Borokhovich, Owens, Director Whitlow, Acting Directors Smith, Miller, Directors Hudecek and Patterson.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White, Directors
Warren and Axelrod.
Resolution No. 537-99.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 120-05-018 located at 12001-03
Oakland Avenue in Ward 9; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or
abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Pearlie Williams, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 9 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the

1666

August 18, 1999
City of Cleveland, with Pearlie
Williams for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 12005-018 located at 12001-03 Oakland
Avenue, in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Directors Borokhovich, Owens, Director Whitlow, Acting Directors Smith, Miller, Directors Hudecek and Patterson.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White, Directors
Warren and Axelrod.
Resolution No. 538-99.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 135-18-144 located at rear of 10013
Prince Avenue in Ward 2; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Frank Banks and Alma
S.
Banks,
abutting/adjacent
landowners, have proposed to the
City to purchase and develop said
parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 2 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of said
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City
of
Cleveland,
with
Frank
Banks and Alma S. Banks for the
sale and development of Permanent
Parcel No. 135-18-144 located at rear
of 10013 Prince Avenue, in accordance with the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Directors Borokhovich, Owens, Director Whitlow, Acting Directors Smith, Miller, Directors Hudecek and Patterson.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White, Directors
Warren and Axelrod.

August 18, 1999
Resolution No. 539-99.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 008-14-063 located at 1067 Holmden Avenue. S.W., in Ward 13; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Edward L. Reynolds,
abutting/adjacent landowner, has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 13 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Edward L.
Reynolds for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 00814-063 located at 1067 Holmden
Avenue. S.W., in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00,
which
amount
is
hereby
determined to be not less than the
Fair Market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Directors Borokhovich, Owens, Director Whitlow, Acting Directors Smith, Miller, Directors Hudecek and Patterson.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White, Directors
Warren and Axelrod.
Resolution No. 540-99.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
Nos. 004-03-052 and 004-03-053 located
at 2205 and 2197 West 20th Street in
Ward 14; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization

The City Record
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Isreal Colon and Aida
Vega, abutting/adjacent landowners,
have proposed to the City to purchase and develop said parcels; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcels are either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of said
parcels are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is hereby requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Isreal Colon and
Aida Vega for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 00403-052 and 004-03-053 located at 2205
and 2197 West 20th Street, in accordance with the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$1.00 (each), which amount is hereby determined to be not less than
the Fair Market value of said
parcels for uses in accordance with
said Program.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Directors Borokhovich, Owens, Director Whitlow, Acting Directors Smith, Miller, Directors Hudecek and Patterson.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White, Directors
Warren and Axelrod.
Resolution No. 541-99.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 007-29-109 located at 3850 Newark
Avenue in Ward 14; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Carmelo Ciriclo, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,

1667

43
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is hereby requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Carmelo Ciriclo
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 007-29-109 located
at 3850 Newark Avenue, in accordance with the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Directors Borokhovich, Owens, Director Whitlow, Acting Directors Smith, Miller, Directors Hudecek and Patterson.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White, Directors
Warren and Axelrod.
Resolution No. 542-99.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance
with the provision of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 003-33-301, 003-33302, 003-33-305, 003-33-306, 003-33-307,
003-33-308, 003-33-309, 003-33-310, 00333-313, 003-33-314, 003-33-316, 003-33317, and 003-33-318 under said Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 796-99
passed July 14, 1999, authorized the
sale of said parcels for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Ohio City/Near West
Development
Corporation
or
designee has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop said parcels;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 796-99 passed July 14,
1999, by the Cleveland City Council,
the Mayor is hereby authorized to
execute an official deed for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland with
Ohio City/Near West Development
Corporation or designee for the sale
and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 003-33-301, 003-33-302, 003-33305, 003-33-306, 003-33-307, 003-33-308,
003-33-309, 003-33-310, 003-33-313, 00333-314, 003-33-316, 003-33-317, and 00333-318, as described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$100.00 (each), which amount is
hereby determined to be not less
than the fair market value of said
parcels for uses in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Directors Borokhovich, Owens, Director Whitlow, Acting Directors Smith, Miller, Directors Hudecek and Patterson.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White, Directors
Warren and Axelrod.
Resolution No. 543-99.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reuti-

The City Record

44
lization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 109-04-028, 109-04072, 109-14-008, 109-14-009, 109-14-010,
109-14-047, 109-14-077, 109-14-107, and
109-14-108 under said Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1061-99
passed July 14, 1999, authorized the
sale of said parcels for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Cleveland Church of
Christ has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop said parcels;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1061-99 passed July
14, 1999, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Cleveland Church of Christ for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 109-04-028, 109-04072, 109-14-008, 109-14-009, 109-14-010,
109-14-047, 109-14-077, 109-14-107, and
109-14-108, as described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$100.00 (each), which amount is
hereby determined to be not less
than the fair market value of said
parcels for uses in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Carmody,
Konicek, Acting Directors Borokhovich, Owens, Director Whitlow, Acting Directors Smith, Miller, Directors Hudecek and Patterson.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White, Directors
Warren and Axelrod.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________

General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates
for
original
entrance
positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
FREDDIE J. FENDERSON,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, AUGUST 30, 1999
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 99-192: 570 East 105th
Street, a.k.a. 564-567 East 105th
Street, a.k.a. 540 East 105th Street
(Ward 8)
Shore
Bank Enterprise Group,
owners c/o Diane Swander, appeals
to replace 145 linear feet of 6' high
wooden fencing with 145 linear feet
of 6' high landscape screening on
the west side of the said property
at 570 East 105th Street, a.k.a. 564567 East 105th Street and a.k.a. 540
East 105th Street, located in a MultiFamily
District;
said
proposed
installation being contrary to the
Off-Street Loading
and
Parking
Requirements where 6' high landscape screening is required and a
board on board fence is required
and was approved in Board of Zoning Appeals Calendar No. 98-105 and
requires
the
Board
of
Zoning
Appeal approval as stated in Section 349.13 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 99-204: 811 Jefferson
Avenue, a.k.a. 807 Jefferson Avenue (Ward 13)
Urban Housing Ltd. Partnership,
owner c/o Doug Perkowski, agent,
appeal to construct a 44'-8" x 93'-4"
two-story masonry office building on
a 66' x 150' parcel located in a General Retail District on the southwesterly side of Jefferson Avenue at
811 Jefferson Avenue, a.k.a. 807 Jefferson Avenue; said construction
being contrary to the Off-Street
Parking and Loading Requirements
of Section 349.04(g) where 17 parking spaces are required and 6 are
proposed,
and
Section
349.07(3)
where the maximum width of driveway permitted is 30' and an apron
radius at the curb of not less than
6' and 4' is proposed, and contrary
to the Landscaping and Screening
Requirements where an 8' landscaping strip is required at the rear
southwest corner and the southeast
corner between the existing TwoFamily District and the General
Retail District and 5' is required as
stated in Section 352.08, 352.09, 352.10
and 352.11 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 99-205: 7300 Clark Avenue (Ward 18)
Albert Seidowski, owner, appeals
to construct approximately 300 linear feet of 6' high chain link fencing 1' off the property line of a
129' x 154' parcel located in a General Retail District on the north
side of Clark Avenue between West
73rd and West 74th Streets at 7300
Clark Avenue; said construction
being contrary to the Yards and
Courts Regulations where the proposed height of fence within the
10' setback on Clark Avenue is 6'
and the proposed height of fence
within the 5' setback on West 73rd
and West 74th Streets is 6' and the
maximum height of fencing permitted is 4'-6" as stated in Section
357.13(b)(3) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 99-206: 2375 East 61st
Street (Ward 5)
Gabriel’s Green Limited Partnership, owner, and Tesco Building

1668

August 18, 1999
Inc. c/o Delores Graham, appeal to
construct a 26' x 26' two-story, single family dwelling house with full
basement and a 12' x 24' one-story
detached private garage on a 40' x
160' lot located in a B-Multi-Family
District on the east side of East 61st
Street at 2375 East 61st Street; said
construction being contrary to the
Front Yard Regulations of Section
357.09(b)(2)A, where no building
shall be erected less than 10' from
an adjoining lot and approximately
8' is proposed from the dwelling to
the north of the property in question known as 2361 East 61st Street
and contrary to the Residential District Regulations where the proposed garage shall be located on
the rear half of the lot as stated in
Section 337.23(a) of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 99-207: 781 East 185th
Street (Ward 11)
Jane Boltz and Olga Stech, owners, appeal to expand an existing
20' x 62' tavern to 42' x 62' by
removing the first floor dwelling
unit located to the rear of an existing barber shop, with the two
dwelling units on the second floor
to remain, and all located in a 42'
x 62' stores and suites building situated on a 50' x 109' parcel in a
Local Retail District on the east
side of East 185th Street at 781
East 185th Street; said proposed
use and expansion for a tavern
with entertainment being contrary
to
the
restrictions
of
Section
343.01(b)F that pertain to a Local
Retail District and to the requirements for accessory off-street parking, where 0 spaces are proposed
and 17 spaces are required pursuant to Section 349.01 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 99-210: 401 Euclid
Avenue, a.k.a. 402-508 Superior
Avenue (Ward 13)
Cleveland Arcade Ltd. Partners,
owner,
and
Old
Arcade,
LLC,
prospective purchaser, and Hyatt
Hotels
Corporation,
tenant,
and
Kevin Dreyfuss-Wells, agent, appeal to change the use of an existing approximate 397' x 181' tenstory
irregular
shaped
masonry
arcade building into a ten-story
hotel and resort building, situated
on an approximate 451' x 181' irregular shaped parcel in a General
Retail Business District and the
Central Business District between
Superior Avenue and Euclid Avenue
at 401 Euclid Avenue, a.k.a. 402-508
Superior Avenue; said change of use
being contrary to the Yards and
Courts Regulations, where a 0' interior side yard and rear yard are provided and the required interior side
yards and rear yard shall not be
less than 5' as stated in Section
357.01(a)
of
the
Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 99-222: 1127 Euclid Avenue,
a.k.a.
1111-1131
Euclid
Avenue (Ward 13)
Statler Arms Inc., owner, and
Eric Pempus,
agent,
appeal
to
change the use of an existing
approximate 379' x 104' twelvestory rectangular shaped masonry
office building into a twelve-story
apartment building situated on an
approximate 379' x 104' rectangular
shaped parcel located in a General

August 18, 1999
Retail Business District and the
Central Business District at the
northwest corner
of
East
12th
Street and Euclid Avenue at 1127
Euclid Avenue Statler Tower, a.k.a.
1111-1131
Euclid Avenue
Statler
Tower; said change of use being
contrary to the Area Requirements
Regulations of Section 355.04 where
the total floor area permitted is
326,135.25 square feet and 553,029
square feet are provided and contrary to Yards and Courts Regulations of Sections 357.03 and 357.08
where a 30' rear yard is required
and 0' are provided and Section
357.05(a) where a 5' side street
line setback is required and 0' are
provided and 0' interior side yards
are provided and the required interior side yards shall not be less
than
5'
as
stated
in
Section
357.09(2)(B) of the Codified Ordinances.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, AUGUST 16, 1999
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, August
16, 1999, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 99-188: 9713 Easton
Avenue
Barbara B. Malloy, owner, appealed to construct a 24' x 30' onestory wood frame, two car garage
on a 35' x 142' parcel in a TwoFamily District.
Calendar No. 99-194: 3619 Memphis
Avenue
Robert A. Yalanty, owner, appealed to change the use of an existing one-story masonry service station building into an automotive
repair garage in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 99-195: 5316 Fleet Avenue
Joseph Fortuna, owner, appealed
to construct a 26' x 36' garage for
parking
of
vehicles
related
to
Funeral
Home
Business
on
an
approximate 120' x 215' corner parcel located in split zoning between
Local Retail and Two-Family Districts.
Calendar No. 99-196: 4499 Warner
Road
Nick Giurukis, owner, and Mike
Murray c/o Parma Lumber, agent,
appealed to construct a 24' x 24'
accessory garage on an approximate
155' x 205' parcel in a General
Retail Business District; approval
subject to submission and approval
of required plan showing landscaping details.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 99-189: 15721 Waterloo
Road postponed to September 13,
1999.

The City Record

45

Calendar No. 99-190: 1946 St. Clair
Avenue postponed to October 4,
1999.
Calendar
No.
99-191:
Appeal
of
Slavic Village Development Corporation postponed to September
13, 1999.
The following appeals were Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 99-104: 2704 Clark
Avenue
Gerald Zahler, owner, and Around
the Clock Day Care c/o Tim Renfroe, tenant, appealed to change the
use of an existing 52' x 136' portion of an existing 152' x 144' onestory masonry retail building into a
day care center in a General Retail
District.
Calendar No. 99-164: 2983 Hampton
Road
Rysar Properties appealed to construct a 53' x 42' one family twostory dwelling house with an attached garage on an approximate
123' x 63' parcel in a One-Family
District.
The following
missed:

appeal

was

Dis-

Calendar No. 99-163: 782 Brayton
Avenue
Guy
Templeton
Black,
owner,
appealed to change the use of an
existing 10' x 40' mobile home situated on a 30' x 70' parcel in a
Two-Family District.
On Monday, August 16, 1999, in
Executive Session:
The following appeals were heard
on Monday, August 9, 1999, and said
decisions
were
approved
and
adopted by the Board on August 16,
1999:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 99-179: 2925 Chatham
Avenue
Bruce Hedderson, owner, appealed
to construct a 55' x 20' two-story,
single family dwelling house with
an attached garage on a 59' x 32'
parcel in a Two-Family District.

pre-engineered
building
addition
and a 21' wide x 45' long at grade
connector to an existing one-story
building in a Semi-Industry District
at 4535 Johnston Parkway.
Calendar No. 99-121: 4220 Pearl Road
John Lozios, owner, and Zaremba
Group LLC c/o John Wojtila, agent,
and
CVS
Pharmacy,
purchaser,
appealed to construct a 75' x 135'
10,125 sq. ft. One-story masonry
(CVS Pharmacy) building and an 84
car parking lot on an approximate
300' x 500' corner parcel in split
zoning between General Retail Business and Multi-Family Districts; subject to submission and approval of
improved
plan
with
descriptive
detail on landscaping, screening of
dumpster and safety bollards.
Calendar No. 99-147: 5315 Fleet Avenue
Jennifer Thompson, owner, appealed to construct approximately 26
linear feet of 4'-6" wooden fencing
to the front, 20 linear feet of 6'-0"
wooden fencing to the west, 52 linear feet of 6'-0" wooden fencing to
the east and 47 linear feet of 6'0"
wooden fencing to the rear of property situated on a 40' x 130' parcel
in a Local Retail District; approval
with height of fencing in the setback lowered to 4'6".
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 99-185: 1294 West 112th
Street
John Barrick, owner, appealed to
construct a 20' x 22' one-story
garage addition adjacent to an
existing 22' x 22' one-story garage
both on a 50' x 140' parcel in a
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 99-186: 6602 Superior
Avenue
Joseph
Stokes,
owner,
and
Demetrious Davis, tenant, appealed
to alter and change the use of an
existing 44' x 29' one-story masonry building into a car wash on a 75'
x 126' corner parcel in a Local
Retail Business District.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

Calendar No. 99-181: 3440-3442 West
117th Street
Eduardo Galindo, owner, appealed
to construct an asphalt parking lot
for 15 spaces for accessory to an
existing restaurant on a 35' x 105'
corner parcel in a General Retail
Business District.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Calendar No. 99-183: 617 Literary
Road
Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited
Partnership, owner c/o Keith Sutton, appealed to erect a three-story,
two family dwelling house with full
basement and a 20' x 20' detached
private garage in a B-Multi-Family
District.

PUBLIC NOTICE

Calendar No. 99-197: 4545 Johnston
Parkway
Scovill/Hanna LLC, owner, and
Mike Curtis c/o Curtis/Layer General contractors, agent, appealed to
construct an approximate 200' x
145' one-story masonry and metal

1669

NO MEETING

The following are in violation of
C.O. 623.14:
Richard Alt, last known address,
1742 West 29th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44113.
Richard Norris, last known address, 10127 South Blvd., Apartment
2, Cleveland, Ohio 44108.

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
NONE

The City Record

46
CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the
Office
of
Equal
Opportunity
(“OEO”) prior to the date of bid
opening or submission of proposals
or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business
enterprise code or with representations made on these forms may
result in cancellation of the contract
or other civil or criminal penalties.”
THURSDAY, AUGUST 26, 1999
Continental Airlines — Cleveland
2000 — Bid Package 21 — Parking Facilities Pavement Rehabilitation, for the Department of Port
Control.
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS ARE
AVAILABLE THROUGH MORSE
DIESEL INTERNATIONAL FOR
THE AMOUNT OF $100.00. BIDS
WILL BE RECEIVED UNTIL 3:00
P.M., THURSDAY, AUGUST 26,
1999
AT
CONTINENTAL
AIRLINES, INC., CTC BUILDING, 5900
SOUTH CARGO ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135, ATTN: FRANK
ROETZEL.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON THURSDAY, AUGUST
19, 1999, 10:00 A.M., IN THE CTC
BUILDING, 5900 SOUTH CARGO
ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.
PLEASE DIRECT ALL QUESTIONS
TO
MORSE
DIESEL
INTERNATIONAL, 5900 SOUTH
CARGO
ROAD,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44135, (216) 265-4880.
August 11, 1999 and August 18, 1999
FRIDAY, AUGUST 27, 1999
Hydraulic Cylinder Repair, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 789-99, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 7,
1999.

Tire Recapping, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 79299, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 7, 1999.
August 11, 1999 and August 18, 1999
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1999
Stop Cock Boxes, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section
129.26 of the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland, 1976.
Copper Pipe, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section
129.26 of the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland, 1976.
Installation,
Maintenance
and
Repair of Fencing, for the various
division of the Department of Port
Control, as authorized by Ordinance No. 949-99, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 14, 1999.
August 11, 1999 and August 18, 1999
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1999
Replacement
Fencing
at
Various
Baseball Diamonds and Fields, for
the Division of Park Maintenance
and
Properties,
Department
of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
1777-97, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, October 13,
1997.
One (1) Single Axle Cab/Chassis
with Dump Body, for the Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as
authorized
by
Ordinance
No.
1074-98, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, June 23,
1998.
August 11, 1999 and August 18, 1999
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1999
Labor
and
Materials
to
Repair
and/or Replace Roofs, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 534-94, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 6,
1994.
A MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE HELD ON THURSDAY, AUGUST 26, 1999, 11:00 A.M.
AT THE OFFICE OF WATER
POLLUTION
CONTROL,
12302
KIRBY AVENUE, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44108.
August 18, 1999 and August 25, 1999
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1999
Residential Sound Insulation Program, Phase II Continuation, Contract G-99, for the Department of
Port Control, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 469-98, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, May 18, 1998.
A DEPOSIT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($100.00) CERTIFIED
CHECK WILL BE REQUIRED
FOR EACH SET OF PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT
WILL BE REFUNDED IF THE
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS

1670

August 18, 1999
ARE RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION WITHIN FIFTEEN (15)
DAYS AFTER THE BID OPENING DATE.
A MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE HELD ON TUESDAY, AUGUST 31, 1999, 12:30 P.M.
LOCAL TIME IN THE MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM, CLEVELAND
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, 2ND
FLOOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICE, PASSENGER TERMINAL
BUILDING,
5300
RIVERSIDE
DRIVE.
August 18, 1999 and August 25, 1999
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1999
Rental of Heavy-Duty Equipment and
Operators, for the Various Divisions
of the Department of Port Control,
as authorized by Ordinance No. 106599, passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 14, 1999.
Fire Extinguishing Agents, for the
Various Divisions of the Department of Port Control, as authorized
by Ordinance No. 1068-99, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 14, 1999.
Year 2000 Criminal and Civil Filing
System, for the Department of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Clerk of Courts, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1276-99,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, July 14, 1999.
August 18, 1999 and August 25, 1999

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 1207-99.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate portions
of East 82nd Street and Betts Court
S.E.
Whereas, this Council, is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate
portions of East 82nd Street and
Betts Courts S.E., as hereinafter
described, and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate the following
described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all that
portion of:
EAST 82ND STREET (50.00 feet
wide), extending Southerly from the
Southerly line of Holton Avenue S.E.
(40 feet wide), to its Southerly terminus.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all that
portion of:
BETTS COURT S.E. (11.00 feet
wide), extending Easterly from the
Easterly line of East 82nd Street (50
feet wide), to the Westerly line of
East 83rd Street (50 feet wide).
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

August 18, 1999
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.
Res. No. 1468-99.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution urging
Congress to enact H.R. 623 amending
the Energy Policy and Conservation
Act to eliminate certain regulations
concerning plumbing supplies.
Whereas, Congress enacted the
National Energy Policy and Conservation Act in 1992 to provide for the
conservation of water throughout
the United States; and
Whereas, pursuant to that Act,
Congress mandated that only certain types of plumbing fixtures
could be sold and installed post-1995,
including low-flow toilets and particular showerheads; and
Whereas, some of the regulated
plumbing fixtures have been found
to be inefficient and ineffective in
the effort to conserve water; and
Whereas, H.R. 623, currently pending in Congress, would amend the
National Energy Policy and Conservation Act to eliminate some of the
stringent regulations concerning the
sale and installation of certain
plumbing fixtures; now therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council of the
City of Cleveland urges Congress to
enact H.R. 623 to amend the National Energy Policy and Conservation Act to eliminate some of the
stringent regulations concerning the
sale and installation of certain
plumbing fixtures.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby requested to transmit a
copy of this resolution to the following members of Congress: Dennis
Kucinich; Stephanie Tubbs Jones;
George Voinovich and Mike DeWine.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999 without
the signature of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1469-99.
By Councilmen Jackson, Coats,
Westbrook, Lewis, Polensek, Rybka,
Sweeney, Cintron, Cimperman, Zone,
Jones, White, Robinson, Johnson,
Britt, Patmon, Willis, Gordon, O’Malley, Melena and Dolan.
An emergency resolution urging
the Administration, NAACP, Cleveland Police Department and the religious, civic, and business communities to support Cleveland City Council’s request to the Administration to
void any and all permits that would
allow the KKK to rally on August
21, 1999.
Whereas,
the
Ku
Klux
Klan
(KKK) has applied for and was
granted a permit to conduct a rally
in downtown Cleveland on August
21, 1999; and

The City Record
Whereas, the First Amendment of
the United States Constitution protects the rights of free speech; and
Whereas, on the same date, August
21, 1999, the opening game for the
Cleveland Browns football team will
take place downtown in its new stadium, and the Black Family Expo is
to take place downtown at the Cleveland Convention Center; and
Whereas, there could be over
100,000 people in downtown Cleveland on August 21, 1999; and
Whereas, the safety forces and
resources
of
the
City
will
be
stretched to its limits on August 21,
1999, to provide for the safety and
welfare of the City; and
Whereas, permits have not been
granted for other events to take
place on August 21, 1999 because of
the demand on City resources and
the Police Department; and
Whereas,
recent
publicity
and
media coverage have added to the
adverse attitude to the KKK rally;
and
Whereas, the NAACP and others
are
proposing
a
demonstration
against the KKK at the same time,
date, and place of the KKK rally;
and
Whereas, recent controversies will
add additional strain to the Police
Department that will already be
overextended on August 21, 1999;
and
Whereas, the atmosphere of the
City has become so charged and
volatile since the original proper
granting of the permit for the
KKK’s rally; and
Whereas, the presence of the
KKK in Cleveland on August 21,
1999, along with the volatile atmosphere could result in disorder and
violence; and
Whereas, the public safety and
welfare is at risk if the KKK is
allowed to rally on August 21, 1999;
and
Whereas, at this time the public
safety and welfare outweigh the
KKK’s right to rally on August 21,
1999; now, therefore
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Administration
of the City of Cleveland is requested to void any and all permits that
would allow the KKK to rally on
August 21, 1999.
Section 2. That the NAACP, Cleveland Police Department, along with
religious, civic, and business communities support Cleveland City
Council’s request to the Administration to void any and all permits that
would allow the KKK to rally on
August 21, 1999.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is hereby requested to transmit
a copy of this resolution to Mayor
Michael R. White.
Section 4. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999 without
the signature of the Mayor.

1671

47
Res. No. 1470-99.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the stock
transfer of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit to 791 E. 185th St., 1st
Fl. & Bsmt., and repealing Res. No.
1739-98, objecting to said stock
transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the stock transfer of of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit to 791 E.
185th St., 1st Fl. & Bsmt., by Res.
No. 1739-98, adopted September 28,
1998; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw
its
objection
to
the
above stock transfer and consents
to said stock transfer based upon
and pursuant to a cooperation
agreement signed July 15, 1999, a
copy of which is in the file for this
address with the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
stock transfer of a D1, D2, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit to 791 E. 185th
St., 1st Fl. & Bsmt., be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Res. No.
1739-98, containing said objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to
the immediate stock transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Res. No. 1471-99.
By Councilman Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 3469 West 117th St., Suite
A, 1st Fl. & Bsmt.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of this state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare in that pursuant
to Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no

48
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
1240151-0005, owned by Capone’s Tavern Inc., DBA Capone’s, 3469 West
117th St., Suite A, 1st Fl. & Bsmt.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a
letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing
be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Res. No. 1472-99.
By Councilman Robinson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to 12408 Union Ave.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to Permit No. 9152984, Union
Beverage & Deli Inc., DBAUnion
Deli, 12408 Union Ave.,\Cleveland,
Ohio 44105; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and

The City Record
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does
hereby record its objection to the
issuance of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit
to
Permit
No.
9152984,
Union Beverage & Deli Inc., DBA
Union
Deli,
12408
Union
Ave.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application
in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Res. No. 1473-99.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 466 E.
125th St., 1st Fl. & Bsmt.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
6394819, Nick Muntaser Inc., DBA
Independent Market, 466 E. 125th St.,
1st Fl. & Bsmt., Cleveland, Ohio
44108, to Permit No. 7638494, Sabry
Inc., 466 E. 125th St., 1st Fl. & Bsmt.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement

1672

August 18, 1999
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
6394819, Nick Muntaser Inc., DBA
Independent Market, 466 E. 125th St.,
1st Fl. & Bsmt., Cleveland, Ohio
44108, to Permit No. 7638494, Sabry
Inc., 466 E. 125th St., 1st Fl. & Bsmt.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Res. No. 1474-99.
By Councilman Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the stock transfer of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to 3111 E. 93rd
St.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the stock
transfer of a C2 and C2X Liquor Per mit to Permit No. 5235615, Little
Eagle Inc., DBALittle Eagle, 3111
East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44104; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and

August 18, 1999
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does
hereby record its objection to the
stock transfer of a C2 and C2X
Liquor
Permit
to
Permit
No.
5235615, Little Eagle Inc., DBA Little Eagle, 3111 East 93rd Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application
in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Res. No. 1475-99.
By Councilman Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 3477-79 W. 117th St., 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disre-

The City Record
gard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of this state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare in that pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
2691195,
Ferran
Corp.,
DBA Sunshine Market, 3477-79 W. 117th St.,
1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44111, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a
letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing
be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Res. No. 1476-99.
By Councilman Rybka
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 5407 Fleet Ave., 1st
Fl. & Bsmt.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of this state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare in that pursuant
to Section 4303.271 of the Revised

1673

49
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 3160622, owned by Ghazi
Corp., DBAGhazi Market, 5407 Fleet
Ave., 1st Fl. & Bsmt., Cleveland,
Ohio 44105, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a
letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing
be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Res. No. 1477-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 3153 W. 73rd
St.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 6459673, Nour
Corp., DBARite Shop, 3153 W. 73rd
St., Cleveland, Ohio 44102, to Permit
No. 8861048, 3135 W. 73rd St., Inc.,
3153 W. 73rd St., Cleveland, Ohio
44102; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and

50
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does
hereby record its objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
6459673, Nour Corp., DBA Rite Shop,
3153 W. 73rd St., Cleveland, Ohio
44102, to Permit No. 8861048, 3135
W. 73rd St., Inc., 3153 W. 73rd St.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application
in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Res. No. 1478-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 10630 Berea Road
rear, 2nd Fl. & Patio.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of this state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preserva-

The City Record
tion of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare in that pursuant
to Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8840360003, owned by
10630 Berea Road Inc., DBAU41A
Bar 3, 10630 Berea Road rear, 2nd
Fl. & Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a
letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing
be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Res. No. 1479-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 1121315 Detroit Avenue, 1st Fl., Bsmt. and
Patio.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of this state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare in that pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,

1674

August 18, 1999
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 2472235,
owned by 11213 Detroit Avenue Inc.,
11213-15 Detroit Ave., 1st Fl., Bsmt.
and Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a
letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing
be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Res. No. 1480-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 9501 Denison Ave.,
1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit
to continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws,
regulations or local ordinances of
this state, and that this objection
is based on other legal grounds as
set forth in Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare in that pursuant
to Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1. That
Council
does
hereby record its objection to the
renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 4410995, owned by
Junak
Enterprises,
Inc.,
DBA

August 18, 1999
Andy’s Hot Spot, 9501 Denison Ave.,
1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a
letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing
be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Res. No. 1481-99.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 831 E. 140th
St.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 3700511, Sabrina A. Head, DBAEast 140th Food &
Beverage, 831 E. 140th St., Cleveland, Ohio 44110, to Permit No.
0300140, Aspinwall Market Inc., DBA
Ten Market, 831 E. 140th St., Cleveland, Ohio 44110; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

The City Record
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 3700511, Sabrina A. Head, DBAEast 140th Food &
Beverage, 831 E. 140th St., Cleveland, Ohio 44110, to Permit No.
0300140, Aspinwall Market Inc., DBA
Ten Market, 831 E. 140th St., Cleveland, Ohio 44110 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Res. No. 1482-99.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C1 Liquor
Permit to 3228 W. 65th St.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 4289576, Jime Corp., DBA
Shop 4 Less, 3228 W. 65th St., Cleveland, Ohio 44102; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and

1675

51
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 4289576, Jime Corp., DBA
Shop 4 Less, 3228 W. 65th St., Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Res. No. 1483-99.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 4409
Payne Ave., 1st Fl.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
5382960, M & L Salami Inc., DBA
Tommys Market, 4409 Payne Ave.,
1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44103, to
Permit No. 0072688, Affs Market Inc.,
DBATommys Market, 4409 Payne
Ave., 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44103;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and

52
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does
hereby record its objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit from Permit No.
5382960, M & L Salami Inc., DBA
Tommys Market, 4409 Payne Ave.,
1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44103, to
Permit No. 0072688, Affs Market
Inc., DBA Tommys Market, 4409
Payne Ave., 1st Fl., Cleveland,
Ohio 44103, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Res. No. 1484-99.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the stock transfer of a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to 1229 W. Sixth St., 1st Fl. & Bsmt.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Director of Liquor Control of
an application for the stock transfer
of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to Permit No. 1840154, CRV
Inc., 1229 W. Sixth St., 1st Fl. &
Bsmt., Cleveland, Ohio 44114; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is

The City Record
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the stock
transfer of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit to Permit No.
1840154, CRVInc., 1229 W. Sixth St.,
1st Fl. & Bsmt., Cleveland, Ohio
44114 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Res. No. 1485-99.
By Councilman Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 Liquor Permit to 13000 Lorain
Ave.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 1038334, Bru-Lop
Corp., DBACornerstone Tavern, 1300

1676

August 18, 1999
Lorain Ave. & Bsmt., Cleveland,
Ohio 44111, to Permit No. 9055615,
Thirteen Thousand Lorain Inc., DBA
Cornerstone Cafe, 13000 Lorain Ave.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit from Permit No. 1038334, BruLop Corp., DBA Cornerstone Tavern,
1300 Lorain Ave. & Bsmt., Cleveland,
Ohio 44111, to Permit No. 9055615,
Thirteen Thousand Lorain Inc., DBA
Cornerstone Cafe, 13000 Lorain Ave.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

August 18, 1999
Res. No. 1486-99.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 11025 Ashbury Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of
a
permit based
upon
legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of this state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare in that pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
09784490005, owned by Brooklyn Corner Foods Inc., 11025 Ashbury Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a
letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing
be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 257-99.
By Councilmen Robinson, Jones
and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located at the City of Cleveland’s
municipal parking lot between East
139th - East 140th
Streets and
Kinsman Avenue to Mt. Pleasant
Now Development Corporation.
Whereas, the Director of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties
has
requested the sale of City-owned
property no longer needed for pub-

The City Record
lic use and located at the City of
Cleveland’s municipal parking lot
between East 139th - East 140th
Streets and Kinsman Avenue; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is hereby found and
determined that an easement interest in the following described property is no longer needed for public
use:
Permanent Parcel No. 130-12-029
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 446, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Easterly line of
East 139th Street (50 feet wide) at
a point 81.62 feet Northerly of its
intersection with the Northerly line
of Kinsman Road, S.E. (66 feet
wide);
Thence Northerly along the Easterly line of East 139th Street, 40 feet
to the Southerly line of land conveyed to Henry and A. Traylor by
deed dated December 19, 1949 and
recorded in Volume 6867, Page 122
of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence
Easterly
along
the
Southerly line of land so conveyed
to Henry and A. Traylor, 96.86 feet
to a point;
Thence Southerly along a line parallel to East 139th Street, 40 feet to
a point;
Thence Westerly along a line parallel to the Southerly line of aforesaid land conveyed to Henry and A.
Traylor, 96.86 feet to the place of
beginning, and further known as
being part of Sublots Nos. 74 and 75
in Wm. Behm’s proposed allotment.
Permanent Parcel No. 130-12-047
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 446, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 140 Street (60 feet wide) at a
point 136.22 feet Northerly of its
intersection with the Northerly line
of Kinsman Road, S.E. (66 feet
wide);
Thence Northerly along said Westerly line 45 feet;
Thence Westerly along a line at
right angles to the Westerly line of
East 140 Street, 96.86 feet to a
point;
Thence Southerly along a line parallel to the Westerly line of East 140
Street, 45 feet;
Thence Easterly along a line at
right angles to the last described
course 96.86 feet to the place of
beginning, and being further known
as the Northerly 45 feet of Sublots
Nos. 1 and 2 in Wm. Behm’s proposed subdivision.
Permanent Parcel No. 130-12-048
Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and
State of Ohio, and known as being
part of Original 100 Acre Lot No.
446, and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning at a point in the Westerly line of East 140 Street (60 feet
wide) 181.22 feet Northerly from the
intersection of said Westerly line of

1677

53
East 140 Street, with the Northerly
line of Kinsman Road, S.E. (66 feet
wide);
Thence Westerly at right angles
to said Westerly line of East 140
Street, 145.29 feet to a point;
Thence Northerly along a line parallel to the Westerly line of East 140
Street, 50 feet to a point;
Thence Easterly along a line parallel with the first described course
145.29 feet to the Westerly line of
East 140 Street;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of East 140 Street, 50 feet
to the place of beginning, and further known as being Sublot No. 4 in
Wm. Behm’s proposed Allotment of
a part of Original 100 Acre Lot No.
446, be the same more or less but
subject to all legal highways.
Part of Permanent Parcel No. 130-12-089
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 446, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the Easterly line of East 139 Street (50 feet
wide), 156.62 feet Northerly from the
Northerly line of Kinsman Road S.E.
(66 feet wide) and 290.58 feet Westerly at right angles from the Westerly line of East 140 Street (60 feet
wide);
Thence Easterly at right angles to
said Westerly line of East 140
Street, 96.86 feet to a point;
Thence Southerly along a line parallel with the Westerly line of East
140 Street, 35 feet to a point;
Thence Westerly parallel with
the first described course 96.86 feet
to a point in the Easterly line of
East 139 Street, which point is
121.62
feet
Northerly
from
the
Northerly line of Kinsman Road,
S.E. and 290.58 feet Westerly at
right angles from the Westerly line
of East 140 Street;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of East 139 Street, 35 feet
to the place of beginning, and further known as the Northerly 35 feet
of Sublots Nos. 74 and 75 in Wm.
Behm’s proposed allotment of part
of Original 100 Acre Lot No. 446, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Part of Permanent Parcel No. 130-12-089
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 446, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Northerly line of
Kinsman Road, S.E. (66 feet wide)
at a point 150 feet Northwesterly
from its intersection with the Westerly line of East 140 Street (60 feet
wide);
Thence Northerly along a line parallel with the Westerly line of East
140 Street, 125.12 feet to the principal place of beginning;
Thence
continuing
Northerly
along said line parallel to East 140
Street, 68.80 feet to a point;
Thence Westerly along a line at
right angles to the Westerly line of
East 140 Street, 48.43 feet to a point;
Thence Southerly along a line parallel to East 140 Street, 68.80 feet to
a point;
Thence Easterly along a line at
right angles to East 140 Street, 48.43
feet to the principal place of beginning, and further known as the
Northerly 68.80 feet of Sublot No. 73
in Wm. Behm’s Allotment of a part
of Original 100 Acre Lot No. 446, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.

54
Permanent Parcel No. 130-12-111
All that certain piece, parcel or tract
of land situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and State
of Ohio and known as being part of
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 446, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a point on the Northeasterly line of Kinsman Road, S.E.
(66 feet wide), 100 feet Northwesterly from its intersection with the
Westerly line of East 140 Street (60
feet wide);
Thence Northerly along a line parallel with the Westerly line of East
140 Street, about 111.35 feet to a
point (said point being 45 feet
Southerly of the Northerly line of
land conveyed to Jerome S. Epstein,
et al, by deed dated July 7th, 1957,
and recorded in Volume 8888, Page
649 of Cuyahoga County Records,
and the principal place of beginning;
Thence Northerly along said line
parallel to East 140 Street, 45 feet
to a point;
Thence Westerly on a line at right
angles with the Westerly line of
East 140 Street, 48.43 feet to a point;
Thence Southerly along a line
parallel with the Westerly line of
East 140 Street, 45 feet to a point;
Thence Easterly along a line at
right angles to East 140 Street, 48.43
feet to a point in the Easterly line
of aforesaid land conveyed to Jerome
S. Epstein by deed dated July 7, 1957,
and the principal place of beginning,
and further known as being the
Northerly 45 feet of Sublot No. 3 in
Wm. Behm’s proposed allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Ace
Lot No. 446, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 2. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to sell the above-described property to Mt. Pleasant Now
Development Corporation at a price
not less than fair market value as
determined by the Board of Control.
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed to be
prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed shall
contain provisions including such
restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by
the Board of Control or Director of
Law protecting the parties as their
respective interests require and shall
specifically
contain
a
provision
against the erection of any advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 957-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 603.02, 604.01, 604.02, 604.03
and 604.04, and 604.99 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by various ordinances, relating to vicious dogs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 603.02, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1020-76, passed June
14, 1976,
Section 604.01, as amended by
Ordinance No. 90-96, passed March
18, 1996,
Section 604.02, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2884-89, passed December 4, 1989, and
Sections 604.03, 604.04, and 604.99
as amended by Ordinance No. 304-A89, passed June 19, 1989, are hereby
amended to read, respectively, as
follows:
Section 603.02 Unmuzzled Dogs at
Large; Duty to Report
(a) No person shall permit an
unmuzzled dog at any time to be on
a public street, highway, park,
building or other public place except
when held securely in leash by the
owner thereof or another responsible person except when the dog is
legally engaged in training for the
purpose of hunting, herding, agility
or dog competition events, accompanied by the owner, keeper, harborer,
or a handler.
(b) Every City employee, while in
the
performance
of
his
official
duties, who has in his possession or
under his control any radio transmitter and receiver, telephone or
other device ordinarily used for twoway
communication,
shall
immediately report to police officers or
dog wardens of the City the sighting of any unmuzzled dogs found to
be in a public place in violation of
this section. The employee shall
report the time, place, date and
description of the dog, together with
the employee’s name.
(c) If a violation of division (a)
of this section involves a dangerous
or vicious dog as defined in division
(b) or (k) of Section 604.01, the dog
shall be impounded pursuant to Section 603.02. Impoundment of a dangerous or vicious dog because it was
found to be in violation of this section shall not exempt the owner of
the dog from being prosecuted under
Section 604.99.
(d) Whoever violates this section
is guilty of permitting unmuzzled
dogs at large, and shall be fined not
less
than
one
hundred
dollars
($100.00) on the first offense, and on
each subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) or more than two
hundred
fifty
dollars
($250.00),
which fine shall be mandatory, and
shall not be suspended or remitted.
(e) An amount equal to the
amount
of
fines
and
penalties
imposed pursuant to this section
shall annually be contributed to and
used for the benefit of the Division
of Dog Pound.
Section 604.01 Definitions
For the purpose of this chapter,
the
following
definitions
shall
apply, unless the context shall indicate another or different meaning or
intent:
(a) “Animal warden” means the
chief dog warden of the City of
Cleveland or his duly authorized
representatives.
(b) “Dangerous Dog” means a dog
that,
without
provocation,
has
chased or approached in either a
menacing fashion or an apparent
attitude of attack, or has attempted
to bite or otherwise endanger any
person, while that dog is off the

1678

August 18, 1999
premises of its owner, keeper, or
harborer and not under the reasonable control of its owner, keeper,
harborer, or some other responsible
person or not physically restrained
or confined in a locked pen which
has a top, locked fenced yard, or
other locked enclosure which has a
top, or any dog which, on three separate occasions within a twelve (12)
month period has been impounded
by the City Animal Warden for
being unrestrained or uncontrolled
off its owner’s, keeper’s, or harborer’s premises.
(c) “Domestic Animal” means a
tamed animal.
(d) “Impounded” means taken into
the custody of the public pound in
the City of Cleveland.
(e) “Law Enforcement Officer”
has the same meaning as division
(k) of Section 601.01 of these Codified Ordinances.
(f) “Menacing fashion” means that
a dog would cause any person being
chased or approached to reasonably
believe that the dog will cause physical injury to that person.
(g) “Owner” means any person,
firm, corporation, organization, or
department possessing, harboring,
keeping, having an interest in, or
having control or custody of an animal.
(h) “Person” means a natural person or any legal entity, including
but not limited to, a corporation,
firm, partnership, or trust.
(i) “Police dog” means a dog that
has been trained, certified and/or
approved by the state and may be
used, to assist one or more law
enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
(j) “Serious injury” means any
physical injury that results in broken bones or lacerations requiring
multiple
sutures
or
cosmetic
surgery.
(k) “Vicious dog” means a dog
that, without provocation, meets any
of the following:
(1) Has killed or caused serious
injury to any person;
(2) Has caused injury, other than
killing or serious injury, to any person, or has killed or caused serious
injury to any domestic animal;
(3) Belongs to a breed that is commonly known as a “pit bull” dog, the
ownership, keeping, or harboring of
such a breed of dog shall be prima
facie evidence of the ownership,
keeping, or harboring of a vicious
dog.
A. The Staffordshire Bull Terrier
breed of dogs;
B. The American Staffordshire
Terrier breed of dogs;
C. The American Pit Bull Terrier
breed of dogs;
D. The Pit Bull Terrier breed of
dogs;
E. Dogs of mixed breeds or of
other breeds than above listed,
which breeds or mixed breeds are
known as pit bulls, pit bull dogs, or
pit bull terriers;
F. Dogs which have the appearance and characteristics of being
predominately of the breeds of
dogs known as Staffordshire Bull
Terrier, American Pit Bull Terrier,
American Staffordshire Terrier, Pit
Bull Terrier and any other breed
of dog commonly known as pit
bulls, pit bull dogs, or pit bull terriers, or a combination of these
breeds.
The ownership, keeping, or harboring of such breed of dogs shall
be prima-facie evidence of the ownership, keeping or harboring of a
vicious dog.

August 18, 1999
(4) Is owned, kept or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
dog fighting or any dog trained for
dog fighting.
(1) “Without provocation” means
that a dog was not teased, tormented or abused by a person, or that
the dog was not coming to the aid
or the defense of a person who was
not engaged in illegal or criminal
activity and who was not using the
dog as a means of carrying out such
activity.
Section 604.02 Exemptions
(a) The provisions of this chapter
shall not include a police dog.
(b) Notwithstanding the definition
of a vicious dog in Section 604.01, no
dog may be declared vicious if:
(1) An injury or damage is sustained by a person who, at the time
such injury or damage was sustained, was committing a willful
trespass or other tort upon premises
occupied by the owner or keeper of
the dog, or was teasing, tormenting,
abusing or assaulting the dog or
was committing or attempting to
commit a crime;
(2) An injury or damage was sustained by a domestic animal which
at the time such injury or damage
was sustained was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the
dog or was trespassing upon premises occupied by the owner or keeper
of the dog; or
(3) The dog was protecting or
defending a human being within the
immediate vicinity of the dog from
an unjustified attack or assault.
(4) The dog is:
A. within the confines or on the
property of the Cleveland Convention Center as defined in Section
133.12 or other premises classified as
assembly
use
structures
under
Group A-3 of the Ohio Basic Building Code; and
B. under the control and supervision of an owner who has entered
the dog in a show or exhibition in
the premises described in division
(b)(4)A. of this section.
(c) The owner, keeper or harborer of a vicious or dangerous dog is
not liable in damages for any
injury, death or loss to person or
property caused by such dog, if such
injury, death or loss was caused to
the person or property of an individual who, at the time, was committing or attempting to commit a
trespass or other criminal offense on
the property of the owner, keeper or
harborer or was committing or
attempting to commit a criminal
offense against any person, or was
teasing, tormenting, or abusing the
dog or the owner, keeper or harborer’s property.
(d) Dogs conforming to division
(k)(3) of Section 604.01 that are not
in violation of divisions (k)(1) or
(k)(2) of Section 604.01, that have
successfully completed any of the
following title certificates, awarded
from any of the authorized agencies,
shall be exempt from this section.
(1) The owner of the dog shall
provide a copy of the certificate to
the Dog Warden, who shall keep the
certificate on file. The certifcate
must contain the name of the individual dog, the name of the owner,
and a date noting when the title certificate was successfully completed.
(2) The owner shall submit a photograph of the dog to the Dog Warden, who shall keep the photograph
on file.
(3) The owner, keeper or harborer shall have the dog tattooed or
microchipped to secure positive iden-

The City Record
tification, and shall submit to the
Dog Warden the microchip implantation number or tattoo number
assigned to the dog. The Dog Warden shall keep the documenttion on
file.
(4) The owner shall submit proof
of a valid County License tag to the
Dog Warden at time of application
for exemption status.
(e) Acceptable Title certificates
are:
(1) Companion Dog;
(2) Canine Good Citizen;
(3) Temperament Test.
(f) Authorized agencies are any
member or sanctioned Kennel, Obedience, or Specialty club that is
authorized to hold conformation or
obedience shows under the official
guidelines as set forth by the American Kennel Club, United Kennel
Club, or Canadian Kennel Club, or
the American Temperament Test
Society.
(g) The Dog Warden, upon receiving all documentation pertinent to
the exemption status, shall issue
such dog an exemption tag. The
exemption tag fee is Ten Dollars
($10.00).
(h) The owner of an exempted
dog shall securely fasten the exemption tag to a substantial collar worn
by such dog at all times. A valid
County license tag shall also be
affixed to such collar at all times.
Such collar and tags may only be
removed if said dog is:
(1) Actively engaged in lawful
hunting, or
(2) The dog is competing in a dog
show or other event where event
rules prohibit the dog from wearing
a collar and/or tags, or
(3) The dog is confined as defined
in division (a) of Section 604.03.
(i) The fee charged for replacement of a lost exemption tag shall
be Five Dollars ($5.00).
Section 604.03 Control of Vicious
and Dangerous Dogs
No owner, keeper or harborer of a
dangerous or vicious dog shall fail
to do either of the following, except
when the dog is legally engaged in
training for the purpose of hunting,
herding, agility or dog competition
events, accompanied by the owner,
keeper, harborer, or a handler:
(a) While the dog is on the
premises of the owner, keeper, harborer or handler, it must be securely confined indoors, or in a locked
pen which has a top, the dimensions
of which should be at least five feet
by ten feet, and must have secure
sides and a secure top. If such structure should have no bottom secured
to the sides, the sides must be
imbedded into the ground no less
than two feet. Such structure must
be suitable to prevent the entry of
young children and designed to prevent the dog from escaping, or in a
locked fenced yard which fence is
at least six feet high. Any enclosure
must provide protection from the
elements for the dog.
(b) While the dog is off the
premises of the owner, keeper or
harborer, keep it on a substantial
collar and leash or tether not
exceeding six feet in length and
additionally shall do the following:
(1) Keep the dog in a locked pen
which has a top, locked fenced yard
of at least six (6) feet high, or other
locked enclosure which has a top; or
(2) Have the leash or tether controlled by a person who is at least
eighteen (18) years of age or securely attach, tie, or affix the leash or
tether to the ground or a stationary

1679

55
object or fixture so that the dog is
adequately restrained and station
such person in close enough proximity to the dog so as to prevent it
from causing injury to any person;
and
(3) Muzzle the dog. The muzzle
must be made in a manner that will
not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration
but must prevent it from biting any
person or animal.
(c) No owner, keeper or harborer
of the dog shall permit the unmuzzled dog at anytime to be on a public street, highway, park, building,
or other public place.
(d) A dog declared to be dangerous or vicious by violating division
(b) of Section 604.01 or divisions
(k)(1) or (k)(2) of Section 604.01
shall, at the expense of such owner,
keeper, or harborer, be tattooed or
microchipped to secure positive identification.
Section 604.04 Insurance; Signs;
Notification
(a) All owners, keepers or harborers of vicious dogs shall obtain
a policy of liability insurance with
an insurer authorized to write liability insurance in this state providing coverage in each occurrence,
subject to a limit, exclusive of
interest and costs, of not less than
one
hundred
thousand
dollars
($100,000.00) because of damage or
bodily injury to or death of a person caused by the vicious dog. All
owners, keepers or harborers of
vicious dogs shall provide a copy of
the policy for liability insurance to
the Animal Warden on a yearly
basis.
(b) All persons who presently
own, keep or harbor a vicious dog
must obtain a policy of liability
insurance within thirty (30) days of
the effective date of this section.
(c) Upon request of the Dog Warden, the owner of a vicious dog
shall produce proof of liability
insurance forthwith. Failure to furnish proof of liability insurance may
result in the impounding of the dog
by the Dog Warden until such proof
is furnished.
(d) All owners, keepers or harborers of vicious or dangerous dogs
shall have posted and displayed at
each possible entrance onto the
premises where the vicious or dangerous dog is kept a conspicuous
sign, clearly legible, and easily
readable by the public warning that
there is a vicious or dangerous dog
on the premises. Such sign shall be
at least eight (8) inches by ten (10)
inches in rectangular dimensions
and shall contain only the words
“VICIOUS DOG” or “DANGEROUS
DOG” in lettering not less than two
(2) inches in height. Such sign
should also include a visual symbol
for any children or people who cannot read words.
(e) (1) The owner of a vicious or
dangerous dog shall notify the animal warden within twenty-four (24)
hours if the vicious or dangerous
dog is on the loose, is unconfined,
has attacked another animal, has
attacked any person, has died, or
transfer of ownership or possession
of the dog has occurred.
(2) If there has been a transfer of
possession or ownership of a dangerous or vicious dog, within ten
(10) days after such transfer of
ownership or possession, the seller,
transferor, owner, keeper or harborer shall provide a completed copy of
a written form to the animal warden on which the seller, transferor,

56
owner, keeper or harborer shall furnish the following information:
A. The name and address of the
buyer or other transferee of the dog:
B. The age, sex, color, breed, and
registration number of the dog.
C. In addition, the seller, transferrer, owner, keeper or harborer
shall answer the following questions which shall be specifically
stated on the form as follows:
“Has the dog ever chased or
attempted to attack or bite a person? If yes, describe the incident(s)
in which the behavior occurred.”
“Has the dog ever bitten a person?
If yes, describe the incident(s) in
which the behavior occurred.”
“Has
the
dog
ever
seriously
injured or killed a person or other
animal? If yes, describe the incident(s)
in
which
the
behavior
occurred.”
The animal warden shall furnish
the form to the seller or transferor
at no cost.
Section 604.99 Penalties
(a) If a violation of division (a),
(b) or (c) of Section 604.03 involved
a dangerous dog, whoever violates
that Section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree on a
first offense and of a misdemeanor
of the first degree on each subsequent offense and shall be fined one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) which
fine shall be mandatory, and shall
not be suspended or remitted. Additionally, the Court may order the
offender: (i) to personally supervise
the dangerous dog that he owns,
keeps or harbors, (ii) to cause that
dog to complete dog obedience training, (iii) to attend a class on responsible pet ownership and dog behavior, or (iv) to do all three. The
Court, in the alternative, may order
the dangerous dog to be humanely
destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the County Dog Warden, or the
County Humane Society. For repeat
offenders of animal control laws
under Sections 603.02 and 603.04, the
Court may require the owner to
attend a class on responsible pet
ownership and dog behavior.
(b) If a violation of division (a),
(b) or (c) of Section 604.03 involved
a vicious dog, whoever violates that
section may be found guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree on
a first offense. When any person is
found guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree such person shall be
fined
one
thousand
dollars
($1,000.00)
which
fine
shall
be
mandatory, and shall not be suspended or remitted. The Court may
order the dog to be spayed or
neutered at the owner’s, keeper’s or
harborer’s expense. Additionally, the
Court may order the vicious dog to
be humanely destroyed by a licensed
veterinarian, the County Dog Warden, or the County Humane Society.
(c) Any owner who does not
obtain the liability insurance coverage required in accordance with
divisions (a) or (b) of Section 604.04
shall be found guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(d) Any owner that is found to
be in violation of division (d) of
Section 604.03 shall be found guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(e) Any owner that is found to be
in violation of division (d) of Section 604.02 shall be found guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(f) Any owner that is found to be
in violation of division (h) of Section 604.02 shall be found guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree.

The City Record
(g) Any owner found to own,
keep, or harbor a dog wearing a fictitious, altered, or invalid exemption
tag shall be found guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(h) Any exempted dog conforming
to division (k)(3) of Section 604.01
that is found to be in violation of
divisions (k)(1) or (k)(2) of Section
604.01 shall forfeit its exemption status permanently.
(i) Any owner who is found guilty
of violating divisions (c) or (d) of
Section 604.04 shall be found guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree
and shall be fined one hundred dollars ($100.00) on each subsequent
offense which fine shall be mandatory and shall not be suspended or
remitted.
(j) Any owner found guilty of violating this chapter shall pay all
expenses, including shelter, food,
veterinary expenses for identification or certification of the breed of
the animal or boarding and veterinary expenses necessitated by the
seizure of the vicious or dangerous
dog for the protection of the public,
and such other expenses as may be
required for the destruction of any
such dog.
(k) An amount equal to the
amount
of
fines
and
penalties
imposed pursuant to this section
shall annually be contributed to and
used for the benefit of the Division
of Dog Pound.
(l) This Section shall not apply
whenever the conduct proscribed in
this chapter constitutes a felony
under RC 955.99.
Section 2. That the following
existing Sections of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 603.02, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1020-76, passed June
14, 1976,
Section 604.01, as amended by
Ordinance No. 90-96, passed March
18, 1996,
Section 604.02, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2884-89, passed December 4, 1989, and
Sections 604.03, 604.04, and 604.99
as amended by Ordinance No. 304-A89, passed June 19, 1989, are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1119-99.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of rock salt, for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Service, for a period of one year,
with one option to renew for one
consecutive year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement con-

1680

August 18, 1999
tract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of rock
salt in the approximate amount as
purchased
during
the
preceding
year, with one (1) option exercisable
by the Director of Public Service, to
renew for an additional one-year
consecutive term, and cancellable
upon thirty days written notice by
said director, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Service. Bids shall be taken in
such manner as to permit an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than a year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation account and the Director of Finance shall certify thereon
the amount of the initial purchase
thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
pursuant to a requisition against
such contract duly certified by the
Director of Finance. (RL 3242)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1206-99.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to AES Management
Corporation to encroach into the
right-of-way of Shepard Ct. S.E.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public service hereby is authorized
to issue a permit, revocable at the
will of Council, and assignable by
the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to AES Management Corporation, 3592 Lee Road, Suite 200,
Shaker Heights, Ohio 44120, its successors and assigns, for the construction,
use,
maintenance
and
development of a Popeyes Chicken
& Biscuits Restaurant, which will
encroach into the public right-ofway of Shepard Court S.E. at a site
more fully described as follows:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
FOR SHEPARD COURT
S.E./ENCROACHMENT AREA
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being a parcel
of land which is approximately the
Easterly 76.00 feet of Shepard Court
S.E. (12.00 feet wide).

August 18, 1999
Section 3. That said restaurant
will be placed within the public
right-of-way as aforesaid in Section
1, and said restaurant will be constructed in accordance with plans
and specifications approved by the
Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction.
Section 4. That the permit herein
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall be issued
only when, in the opinion of the
Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified
against any and all loss which may
result from said permit.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1258-99.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request.)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of labor and materials necessary
to install security equipment, for the
Director of Finance, on behalf of the
Clerk of Courts, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Clerk of
the Cleveland Municipal Court is
hereby authorized to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the
period of two (2) years for the necessary items of labor and materials
necessary to install security equipment, including but not limited to,
restricted access systems and camera monitoring systems in the estimated sum of $25,000, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis
for
the
Department
of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal
Court.
Bids
shall
be
taken in such manner as to permit
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than two (2)
years may be taken if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 2. The cost of said contract
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation account and the Director of Finance shall certify thereon
the amount of the initial purchase
thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
pursuant to a requisition against
such contract duly certified by the
Director of Finance. (RL 5434)

The City Record
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1259-99.
By Councilmen Willis and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to clean and test insulators,
bushings and lightning arrestors,
for the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period not to exceed two
years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of two
(2) years for the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
clean and test insulators, bushings
and
lightning
arrestors
in
the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities. Bids shall be taken in
such manner as to permit an award
to be made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract
for each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than two (2) years may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies until provision is made for
the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
0205)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

1681

57
Ord. No. 1260-99.
By Councilmen Willis and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to provide landscaping and
snow removal services at various
locations, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of two (2)
years for the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
provide
landscaping
and
snow
removal services at various locations within the Division of Cleveland Public Power in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding term, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than two (2) years may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. The cost of said contract
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation account and the Director of Finance shall certify thereon
the amount of the initial purchase
thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
pursuant to a requisition against
such contract duly certified by the
Director of Finance. (RL 0204)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1261-99.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary for the service, repair and
maintenance for voice recording
equipment, for the various divisions
of the Department of Port Control,
for a period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

58
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of two
(2) years for the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary for
the service, repair and maintenance
for voice recording equipment, in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the various divisions
of the Department of Port Control.
Bids shall be taken in such manner
as to permit an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than
two (2) years may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. The cost of said contract
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation account and the Director of Finance shall certify thereon
the amount of the initial purchase
thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
pursuant to a requisition against
such contract duly certified by the
Director of Finance. (RL 08210)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1262-99.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Rockwell Avenue N.E.
hereinafter described.
Whereas, on the 29th day of
March, 1999 the Council of the City
of Cleveland adopted Resolution No.
36-99
declaring
its
intention
to
vacate
a
portion
of
Rockwell
Avenue N.E., hereinafter described.
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above Resolution No. 36-99 has
been served upon the owners of all
the
property
abutting
Rockwell
Avenue N.E., affected by said Resolution, notifying the said property
owners of the time and place at
which
objections
can
be
heard
before the Board of Revision of
Assessments, and
Whereas, on the 30th day of June,
1999, the Board of Revision of
Assessments approved the vacation
of Rockwell Avenue N.E., hereinafter
described,
in
accordance
with the provisions of Section 176 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied that there is good cause for
vacating Rockwell Avenue N.E.,
hereinafter described and that it
will not be detrimental to the general interest and ought to be made;
and

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That all that portion of
Rockwell Avenue N.E. (60.00 feet
wide) extending Westerly from the
Westerly line of East 21st Street
(66.00 feet wide) to that portion of
Rockwell Avenue N.E. vacated by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
by Ordinance Number 87-68, passed
on January 8, 1968, be and the same
is hereby vacated.
Section 2. That there be and hereby is reserved to the City of Cleveland easement for existing Division
of Safety Signal equipment, and
Division of Fire.
The description of easement is as
follows:
That portion of Rockwell Avenue
N.E. (60.00 feet wide) extending
Westerly from the Westerly line of
East 21st Street (66.00 feet wide) to
that portion of Rockwell Avenue
N.E. vacated by the Council of the
City of Cleveland by Ordinance
Number 87-68, passed on January 8,
1968.
That no structures shall be hereafter
erected
on
the
premises
described in this easement except
those
constructed
in
accordance
with the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by the
Commissioner of the Division of
Safety Signal, and the Commissioner of the Division of Fire, of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
notify the Auditor of Cuyahoga
County of the vacation of all that
portion of Rockwell Avenue N.E.,
herein provided by sending him a
copy of this Ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1263-99.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Star Court S.W. hereinafter described.
Whereas, on the 29th day of
March, 1999 the Council of the City
of Cleveland adopted Resolution No.
1616-98 declaring its intention to
vacate a portion of Star Court S.W.,
hereinafter described.
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above Resolution No. 1616-98 has
been served upon the owners of all
the property abutting Star Court
S.W., affected by said Resolution,
notifying the said property owners
of the time and place at which
objections can be heard before the
Board of Revision of Assessments,
and
Whereas, on the 30th day of June,
1999, the Board of Revision of
Assessments approved the vacation
of
Star
Court
S.W.,
hereinafter
described, in accordance with the
provisions of Section 176 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland; and

1682

August 18, 1999
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating Star Court S.W., hereinafter
described and that it will not be
detrimental to the general interest
and ought to be made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That all that portion
of Star Court S.W. (12.00 feet wide)
extending Easterly from the Easterly line of West 43rd Street (12.00
feet wide) to its Easterly terminus,
be and the same is hereby vacated.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
notify the Auditor of Cuyahoga
County of the vacation of all that
portion of Star Court S.W., herein
provided by sending him a copy of
this Ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1264-99.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of various automobile, van
and truck parts, including labor if
necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of two
(2) years for the necessary items of
various automobile, van and truck
parts, including labor if necessary
in the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service. Bids shall be taken
in such manner as to permit an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than two (2)
years may be taken if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the

August 18, 1999
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
1799)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1265-99.
By Councilmen Coats and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
for
the
Metropolitan
Medical
Response System Development Program and to enter into contract for
the purchase of equipment and
training services for the Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the amount of $400,000, from the
Public Health Service, Department
of Health and Human Services, to
conduct the Metropolitan Medical
Response System Development, for
the purposes set forth in the application and according thereto; that
the Director of Public Safety is hereby authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the application for
said grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 1265-99-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten herein, is hereby approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to enter into contracts for the purchase of equipment and for training services for the program, and
that said contracts are payable
from the fund or funds to which are
credited the grant proceeds accepted pursuant to Section 1 of this
ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1267-99.
By Councilmen Gordon, Jackson,
Robinson and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located on West 46th Street and
West 47th Street to Old Brooklyn
Community Development Corporation, or its designee.
Whereas, the Director of Community Development has requested the
sale of City-owned property no
longer needed for public use and
located on West 46th Street and
West 47th Street; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is hereby found and
determined
that
the
following
described property is no longer
needed for public use:
Sublot Nos. 3 thru 7
West 46th Street
Permanent Parcel Nos. 016-24-107,
016-24-108, 016-24-109, 016-24-110, and
016-24-111
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot
Nos. 3 thru 7 inclusive in Milford
Court Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 46,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 273, Page 82 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records, bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at the Northeast corner of said Sublot No. 3 in Milford
Court Subdivision at a point distant
South 00° 01' 10" West, 95.59 feet
from the intersection of the West
line of West 46th Street, 50.00 feet
wide, with the Southwest line of
Eichorn Avenue S.W., 50.00 feet
wide;
Thence South 00° 01' 10" West,
along the said West line of West
46th Street, a distance of 240.00 feet
to the Southeast corner of said
Sublot No. 7 in Milford Court Subdivision said point being also the
Northeast corner of land conveyed to
Jean Krupyak, by deed recorded in
Volume 90-1568, Page 35 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Thence North 89° 58' 50" West,
along the South line of said Sublot
No. 7 and the North line of land so
conveyed to Jean Krupyak, a distance of 127.55 feet to the Southwest
corner of said Sublot No. 7;
Thence North 00° 00' 00" East,
along the West line of said Sublot
Nos. 3 thru 7 inclusive, a distance of
240.00 feet to the Northwest corner
of said Sublot No. 3;
Thence North 90° 00' 00" East,
along the North line of Sublot No. 3,
a distance of 127.63 feet to the place
of beginning and containing 0.7028
acres of land as described by
Howard R. Selee, Registered Surveyor No. 5471, dated March 25, 1998,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways. Bearings
used herein refer to an assumed
meridian and are intended to indicate angles only.

1683

59
Sublot Nos. 8 thru 13
West 47th Street
Permanent Parcel Nos. 016-24-112,
016-24-113, 016-24-114, 016-24-115, and
016-24-116 and 016-24-117
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot
Nos. 8 thru 13 inclusive in Milford
Court Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 46,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 273, Page 82 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records, bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at the Northwest corner
of said Sublot No. 13 in Milford
Court Subdivision at a point distant
South 00° 00' 00" East, 130.50 feet
from the intersection of the East
line of West 47th Street, 50.00 feet
wide, with the Southwest line of
Eichorn Avenue S.W., 50.00 feet
wide;
Thence South 00° 00' 00" East,
along the said East line of West
47th Street, a distance of 289.50 feet
to the Southwest corner of said
Sublot No. 8 in Milford Court Subdivision said point being also the
Northwest corner of land conveyed
to Rita Kourey, by deed recorded in
Volume 88-4675, Page 26 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Thence North 90° 00' 00" East,
along the South line of said Sublot
No. 8 and the North line of land so
conveyed to Rita Kourey, a distance
of 127.46 feet to the Southeast corner of said Sublot No. 8;
Thence North 00° 00' 00" East,
along the East line of said Sublot
Nos. 8 thru 13 inclusive, a distance
of 289.50 feet to the Northeast corner of said Sublot No. 13;
Thence North 90° 00' 00" West,
along the North line of Sublot No.
13, a distance of 127.46 feet to the
place of beginning and containing
0.8466 acres of land as described by
Howard R. Selee, Registered Surveyor No. 5471, dated March 25, 1998,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways. Bearings
used herein refer to an assumed
meridian and are intended to indicate angles only.
Sublot Nos. 14 thru 15
West 47th Street
Permanent Parcel Nos. 016-24-119
and 016-24-118
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot
Nos. 14 thru 15 in Milford Court Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 46, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 273,
Page 82 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records, bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the East line of West 47th Street,
50.00 feet wide, with the Southwest
line of Eichorn Avenue S.W., 50.00
feet wide, said intersection being
also the Northwest corner of Sublot
No. 15 in said Milford Court Subdivision;
Thence South 00° 00' 00" East,
along the said East line of West
47th Street, a distance of 130.50 feet
to the Southwest corner of said
Sublot No. 14 in Milford Court Subdivision;
Thence North 90° 00' 00" East,
along the South line of said Sublot
No. 14, a distance of 127.46 feet to
the Southeast corner thereof;

60
Thence North 00° 00' 00" East,
along the East line of said Sublot
Nos. 14 thru 15, a distance of 95.74
feet to a point in the Southwest line
of said Eichorn Avenue, S.W.;
Thence North 74° 44' 38" West,
along the said Southwest line of
Eichorn Avenue, S.W., a distance of
132.11 feet to the place of beginning
and containing 0.3309 acres of land
as described by Howard R. Selee,
Registered Surveyor No. 5471, dated
March 25, 1998, be the same more
or less, but subject to all legal
highways. Bearings used herein
refer to an assumed meridian and
are intended to indicate angles
only.
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to sell the
above-described
property
to
Old
Brooklyn Community Development
Corporation, or its designee, at a
price not less than fair market
value as determined by the Board of
Control.
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed to be
prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain provisions including
such restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the Board of Control or
Director of Law protecting the parties as their respective interests
require and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection
of any advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1268-99.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Jackson, Robinson and Johnson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
United Chrysalis, LTD to provide
economic development assistance to
acquire and renovate real property
at 1294 East 55th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
with United Chrysalis, LTD to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the acquisition and renovation of real property at 1294 East 55th Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 2. That the term of said
loan shall be in accordance with the

The City Record
terms as set forth in the Executive
Summary contained in File No. 126899-A.
Section 3. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed Four Hundred Thousand Dollars ($400,000.00),
and shall be paid from Fund No. 17
SF 008, Request No. 1010.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept the collateral
as set forth in the Executive Summary contained in the file referenced in Section 2 of this ordinance
in order to secure repayment of said
loan. Any security instrument shall
be prepared and approved by the
Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of the loan and to deposit
said monies in Fund No. 17 SF 006.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and expend such fees to
cover costs incurred in the preparation of the loan application, closing
and servicing of the loan. Such fees
shall be deposited to and expended
from Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees
Fund.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1269-99.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Jackson, Robinson and Johnson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Chrysalis, LTD
to provide for a ten year abatement
for real estate taxes as an incentive
to acquire and renovate real property
located at 1294 East 55th Street
located in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 948-95, passed June 19, 1995,
this Council designated an area
which is in the City of Cleveland
and described in File No. 948-95-A,
as the Cleveland Area Enterprise
Zone
(the
“Zone”) pursuant
to
Chapter 5709 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains the characteristics set forth
in Section 5709.61(A) of the Revised
Code and certified said area as an
“Urban Jobs and Enterprise Zone”
pursuant to Chapter 5709 of the
Revised Code; and
Whereas, United Chrysalis, LTD
(the “Enterprise”) has proposed to

1684

August 18, 1999
acquire and renovate real property
at 1294 East 55th Street in the City
of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that, but for abatement of real estate taxes the Enterprise would be at a competitive disadvantage by operating at this location; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the immediate
preservation of the public peace,
safety, property, and welfare and
for the further reason that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, such assistance being immediately necessary
or such jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
approves
the
application
of
United Chrysalis, LTD for enterprise
zone incentives on the basis that
United Chrysalis, LTD is qualified
by financial responsibility and business experience to create and preserve employment opportunities in
the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone
and to improve the economic climate
of the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone
Agreement
with
United
Chrysalis, LTD to provide for a ten
(10) year abatement for real estate
taxes as an incentive to acquire and
renovate real property at 1294 East
55th Street; said abatement shall be
subject to annual review of the Tax
Incentive Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of said
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Executive Summary contained
in File No. 1269-99-A. The terms of
said file notwithstanding, the terms
of the tax abatement shall not be
amended, nor shall the tax abatement
be assignable or transferrable to any
entity, without the prior legislative
authorization by Cleveland City Council.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and such funds
are hereby appropriated for the purposes set forth in Chapter 5709 of
the Revised Code. Such fees shall be
deposited to and expended from
fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
agreement and that said agreement
shall contain such terms and provisions as he deems necessary to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

August 18, 1999
Ord. No. 1288-99.
By Councilmen Willis and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more architects
and/or engineers or one or more
firms of architects and/or engineers,
to provide professional services to
assist in the design and construction
of capital projects for the Divisions
of Water, Cleveland Public Power
and Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
for a period of two (2) years from
the effective date of this ordinance,
to employ by contract one or more
architects and/or engineers or one
or more firms of architects and/or
engineers and other necessary consultants or firms of consultants in
the disciplines of civil, mechanical,
electrical, architectural, environmental or structural services, for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to assist in the
design and construction of capital
projects for the Divisions of Water,
Cleveland Public Power and Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, including but not
limited to, the design and construction of capital projects, project and
construction monitoring, inspection,
environmental
site
assessments,
identification of surface and subsurface conditions, preparation of
reports for regulatory agencies, specialized technical assistance, lead
project design services, construction
administration and field services.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Public
Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for such employment as may be determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Utilities for the
purpose of compiling such a list.
The compensation to be paid for
such services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contracts
herein authorized shall be prepared
by the Director of Law, approved by
the Director of Public Utilities, and
certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities shall provide a
report to the Clerk of Council on the
architects and/or engineers selected
under this ordinance and shall also
provide a biannual report to the
Clerk of Council with respect to the
progress of capital projects.
Section 3. That the costs for such
services herein contemplated shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF 001,
54 SF 001 and 58 SF 001, Request No.
1334.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1438-99.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor, or his designee, to
accept registration fees, enter into
contract for the provision of facilities to purchase course supplies and
refreshments, in connection with the
James H. Walker Construction Management Training Course to be conducted by the Office of Equal Opportunity.
Whereas, the Office of Equal
Opportunity is required, pursuant to
Section 123.08 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and
the MBE/FBE Code contained in
Chapter 187 thereof, to hold periodic training seminars to assist minority and female business firms; and
Whereas from September 14, 1999
through October 19, 1999, the Office
of Equal Opportunity will be sponsoring the James H. Walker Construction
Management
Training
Course; and
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland has determined that
collection of fees and provision of
facilities, course supplies, refreshments and a graduation dinner in
connection with said training course
constitute a public purpose; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Mayor, or his
designee, is hereby authorized to
accept a registration fee of One
Hundred
Twenty-Five
Dollars
($125.00)
from
every
registrant
attending the James H. Walker Construction
Management
Training
Course, being held September 14,
1999 through October 19, 1999; to
enter into contract with Cuyahoga
Community
College
for
seminar
facilities; and to purchase course
supplies,
refreshments
and
food
required for the training course and
graduation dinner. Such facilities,
services and food shall be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Office of Equal Opportunity,
using fees collected for registration,
and paid from Fund No. 01-001011302-632000, Request No. 13001.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1439-99.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Fairhill Center for the Aging to
stretch seven (7) banners at Fairhill
Road and East 124th Street on utility poles (by separate permission)
for the period of July 27, 1999
through August 23, 1999, inclusive
publicizing their special event.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

1685

61
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public
Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to Fairhill Center for Aging, 12200 Fairhill
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, to
install, maintain and remove seven
(7) banners on Cleveland Electric
Illuminating Company and also on
Cleveland Public Power utility poles
(by separate permission), at the following locations and pole numbers;
Cleveland
Electric
Illuminating
Company poles at Fairhill Road;
Pole Numbers 53246(5), 53246(6),
53246(7), 53246(8) and Cleveland
Public Power poles at East 124th
Street; Pole Numbers 183-2-5-2-12, 1832-5-2-11, 183-2-5-2-10; for the period of
July 27, 1999 to August 23, 1999,
inclusive, publicizing their special
event; and which banners shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Service in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banners, and said
banners shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1440-99.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Little Italy 2000 Redevelopment to
stretch six (6) banners at Mayfield
Road on utility poles (by separate
permission) for the period of July
20, 1999 through August 27, 1999,
inclusive publicizing their annual
festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to Little Italy
2000 Redevelopment, 12510 Mayfield
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, to
install, maintain and remove six (6)
banners on Cleveland Public Power
utility poles (by separate permission), at the following locations and
pole numbers; 12009 Mayfield Road Pole #40, 12021 Mayfield Road - Pole
#40-1, 12113 Mayfield Road - Pole
#40-2, 12307 Mayfield Road - Pole
#40-4, 12407 Mayfield Road - Pole
#40-5, 12511 Mayfield Road - Pole
#40-6; for the period of July 20, 1999

The City Record

62
to August 27, 1999, inclusive, publicizing their annual festival; and
which banners shall be approved by
the Director of Public Service in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign, erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banners, and said banners shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.
Ord. No. 1441-99.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Mega Church to stretch two (2) banners on West 25th Street at Prame
and Blatt Avenues on utility poles
(by separate permission) for the
period of August 5, 1999 through September 24, 1999, inclusive publicizing
the Children’s Day Care Center.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to Mega Church,
3170 Scranton Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44109,
to
install,
maintain
and
remove two (2) banners on Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by
separate permission), at the following locations and pole numbers; Pole
#AOM 18-59, which is the first pole
south of Prame Avenue (East) on
West 25th Street, and Pole #AOM 1854, which is the second pole south of
Blatt Avenue (West) on West 25th
Street; for the period of August 5,
1999 to September 24, 1999, inclusive,
publicizing the Children’s Day Care
Center; and which banners shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Service in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banners, and said
banners shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

August 18, 1999
Ord. No. 1442-99.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the St. Ignatius Run on
September 12, 1999, sponsored by St.
Ignatius High School.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this Council
consents to and approves the holding
of a Run sponsored by St. Ignatius
High School, on September 12, 1999
beginning at St. Ignatius High School
W. 32nd and Lorain, Lorain to Abbey,
Abbey to Columbus, Columbus to
Riverbed, Riverbed to Carter, Carter
to Scranton, Scranton to Train, Train
to Wiley and return the same route,
provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police or safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and all
liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the event and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1443-99.
By Councilman Cimperman (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Project LEARN to encroach
into the right-of-way at 2728 Euclid Avenue with six (6) banners to be attached to utility poles (by separate permission).
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service hereby is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of Council, and assignable by the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to Project LEARN,
lessee and occupant of the premises at 2728 Euclid Avenue, Suite 200, Cleveland, Ohio 44115-2412, its successors and
assigns, to construct, use and maintain six (6) banners to be attached to three (3) utility poles (by separate permission)which will encroach into the right-of-way at 2728 Euclid Avenue, at the locations more fully described herein.
PROJECT LEARN BANNERS/UTILITY POLE LOCATIONS AND OWNERS:
LOCATION:

POLE NUMBER:

1. 1st pole West of 2728
Euclid Avenue (S)

OWNER:

B81-15

C.P.P.

2. 2728 Euclid Avenue (S)

B81-16

C.P.P.

3. 1st pole East of 2728
Euclid Avenue (S)

B81-15

C.P.P.

Section 2. That nothing in this ordinance grants or shall be considered a grant to Permittee any right, privilege
or permission to use or to attach or affix any objects to poles described in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 3. That said banners will be placed within the public right-of-way as aforesaid in Section 1, and will
be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction.
Section 4. That the permit herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall be issued only
when in the opinion of the Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified against any
and all loss which may result from said permit.
Section 5. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

1686

August 18, 1999
Ord. No. 1444-99.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at Whittier Avenue to
Joni Janine Johnson.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 104-19-100
and
104-19-101,
as
more
fully
described in Section 2 below, to Joni
Janine Johnson.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 104-19-100
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
62 in Sweesy and others Re-Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 340 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 12 of
Maps, Page 40 of Cuyahoga County
Records, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
P.P. No. 104-19-101
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
64 in Sweesy Et. Al. Re-Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 340, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 12 of Maps, Page
40 of Cuyahoga County Records, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.

The City Record
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1445-99.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Light the Night
Leukemia Walk-A-Thon on September 25, 1999, sponsored by the
Leukemia Society.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Light the Night
Leukemia Walk-a-Thon sponsored
by the Leukemia Society, on September 25, 1999 starting at Parcel
H behind the Rock & Roll Hall of
Fame, head along the perimeter of
the inner harbor behind, into and
around the Cleveland Browns Stadium. From the stadium, proceed
onto Erieside Avenue and head to
East 9th. Take East 9th to take a
right onto Carnegie, proceed on
Carnegie to take a right onto
Ontario, from Ontario take a left
into Public Square and a left onto
Superior (in
front
of
Terminal
Tower), take Superior to West 9th
Street, from the corner of Superior
& West 9th, head down the hill to
Settler’s Landing to finish, provided that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to
the extent and in form satisfactory
to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

1687

63
Ord. No. 1446-99.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with E.B.C. FERRY to sponsor
various community events for the
benefit of Ward 10 of the City of
Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with E.B.C. FERRY to sponsor various community events, including
the Ward 10 Community Fest to be
held on September 4, 1999, for the
benefit of Ward 10 of the City of
Cleveland.
Section 2. That the costs of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed Five Thousand Dollars
($5,000.00) and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1447-99.
By
Councilman
Jackson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the
Director
of
Community
Development to enter into contract
with Richard Fleischman Architects,
Inc. for a building condition survey
in the historic block of East 105th
Street between Wade Park and Lee
Avenue, for the Division of Neighborhood Development, Department of
Community Development.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with Richard Fleischman Architects,
Inc. for professional services necessary for a building condition survey
in the historic block of East 105th
Street between Wade Park and Lee
Avenue, on the basis of their proposal dated July 12, 1999, in the
total sum of $20,900.00, payable from
Fund No. 14 SF 025, Request No.
1297, for the Division of Neighborhood Development, Department of
Community Development.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

64
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1448-99.
By
Councilman
Jackson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with Greater Cleveland Media
Development Corporation to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the development
and administration of a program to
market the City of Cleveland as a
place to produce commercials, television programs and major motion
pictures.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a grant
agreement with Greater Cleveland
Media Development Corporation to
provide economic development assistance to partially finance the
development and administration of a
program to market the City of
Cleveland as a place to produce commercials, television programs and
major motion pictures.
Section 2. That the term of said
grant shall be in accordance with
the terms as set forth in the Executive Summary contained in File No.
1448-99-A.
Section 3. That the grant shall not
exceed
Sixty
Thousand
Dollars
($60,000), and shall be paid from
Fund No. 17 SF 652, Request No. 1016.
Section 4. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said grant agreement and such
other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1449-99.
By Councilman Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Buckeye Area Development Corporation to perform various
services and to purchase equipment
for the benefit of Ward 4 of the City
of Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is autho-

The City Record
rized to enter into an agreement
with Buckeye Area Development
Corporation to perform various services and to purchase equipment for
the benefit of Ward 4 of the City of
Cleveland, including a home repair
assistance program, mortgage assistance program, storefront renovation
and the purchase of a tractor.
Section 2. That the costs of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed Two Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($200,000.00) and shall be
paid from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1450-99.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1616 and 1610-12 East
66th Street to Keith Benford and
Sylvia Benford.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio, Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 106-14-093
and
106-14-094,
as
more
fully
described in Section 2 below, to
Keith Benford and Sylvia Benford.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-14-093
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 31 feet of Sublot No. 62 in
Samuel B. Strang’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 341, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page
46 of Cuyahoga County Records,
and being 31 feet front on the Westerly side of East 66th Street, and

1688

August 18, 1999
extending back 132.83 feet on the
Southerly line (which is also the
Northerly side of Quimby Avenue),
132.83 feet on the Northerly line and
having a rear line of 31 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
P. P. No. 106-14-094
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 31 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 61 and the Northerly 2
feet from front to rear of Sublot No.
62 in Sam’l B. Strang’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 341, as shown by the recorded plat of said Allotment in Volume
3 of Maps, Page 46 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Said parts of Sublots Nos. 61 and
62, together form a parcel of land
having a frontage of 33 feet on the
Westerly side of East 66th Street
(formerly Dunham Avenue) and
extending back between parallel
lines 132 feet 9 inches to an alley
(now known as East 66th Place) in
the rear, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1451-99.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at Hough Avenue to
Leodis C. Matthews.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facili-

August 18, 1999
tate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 118-03-090,
as more fully described in Section 2
below, to Leodis C. Matthews.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 118-03-090
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being parts of
Sublot Nos. 16 and 17 in George E.
Dascomb’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 337,
as shown by the recorded plat of said
Subdivision in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page 56 of Cuyahoga County Records,
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a
point
in
the
Southerly line of Hough Avenue, N.E.,
at the Northwesterly corner of land
conveyed to Minard A. Possons, by
deed dated July 23, 1895, and recorded in Volume 600 of Deeds Page 444
of Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Southerly along the Westerly line of
land so conveyed to Minard A. Possons, 134.35 feet to the Southwesterly
corner thereof; thence Westerly on a
line parallel to the Southerly line of
Hough Avenue, N.E., to the Southeasterly corner of land conveyed to
Mary Etta Jackson and James L.
Jackson, wife and husband, to Ida M.
Boyle, by deed dated May 15, 1906
and recorded in Volume 1026 of
Deeds, Page 502 of Cuyahoga County
Records; thence Northerly along the
Easterly line of land so conveyed to
Ida M. Boyle, 134.35 feet to the
Southerly line of Hough Avenue, N.E.,
thence Easterly, along the Southerly
line of Hough Avenue, N.E., to the
place of beginning, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to restrictions of
record and zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.

The City Record
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1452-99.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1619 and 1623 East 82
Street to Jacqueline Flournoy.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 106-23-002
and
106-23-003,
as
more
fully
described in Section 2 below, to
Jacqueline Flournoy.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 106-23-002
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
391, and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning at a point 630 feet Westerly from the Westerly line of East
86th Street (formerly
known as
Marcy Avenue) and 1,175.67 feet
Southerly from the Southerly line of
Wade Park Avenue, N.E., (formerly
known as Wade Park Avenue);
thence Southerly parallel with East
86th Street, 42.50 feet; thence Westerly and parallel with Wade Park
Avenue, N.E., about 150 feet to the
Easterly line of East 82nd Street (formerly known as Genesse Street);
thence Northerly along the Easterly
line of East 82nd Street, 42.50 feet;
thence Easterly and parallel with

1689

65
Wade Park Avenue, N.E., about 148.68
feet to the place of beginning and
being further known as the Southerly 36.50 feet to the Sublot No. 45, and
the Northerly 6 feet of Sublot No. 22
in L.M. Southern’s proposed Wade
Park Subdivision of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 383 and
391, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
P.P. No. 106-23-003
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
391, bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 82nd Street (formerly Genesee
Avenue), at a point distant 1218.17
feet Southerly, measured along said
Easterly line from the Southerly line
of Wade Park Avenue, N.E., (formerly Wade Park Avenue); thence
Easterly on a line drawn parallel to
the Southerly line of Wade Park
Avenue, N.E., about 149.32 feet to the
Westerly line of land conveyed to
Julia A. Seuffert by deed dated September 18, 1890, and recorded in Volume 483, Page 462 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Southerly
along said Westerly line 40 feet;
thence Westerly on a line drawn
parallel to the Southerly line of
Wade Park Avenue, N.E., about 150
feet to the said Easterly line of East
82nd Street; thence Northerly along
the Easterly line of East 82nd Street
about 40 feet, to the place of beginning and being further known as
the Southerly 38 feet to Parcel No.
22 and the Northerly 2 feet of Parcel No. 23 in L.M. Southern’s Proposed Wade Park Avenue Allotment
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lots Nos. 383 and 391.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed shall contain such provisions as
may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

66
Ord. No. 1453-99.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1795 and 1791 East
87th Street to Bobbie Laster and
Geraldine Laster.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 119-05-058
and
119-05-059,
as
more
fully
described in Section 2 below, to Bobbie Laster and Geraldine Laster.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 119-05-058
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 40 feet of the Northerly
126 feet of the Westerly 110 feet of
Sublot No. 49 in P.H. Babcock’s Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 400, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 15
of Maps, Page 38 of Cuyahoga County Records, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
P.P. No. 119-05-059
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Sublot No. 49 in P.H. Babcock’s Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 400 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 15
of Maps, Page 38 of Cuyahoga County
Records
and
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 87th Street (formerly Brookfield) at a point 42 feet Southerly
from the Northwesterly corner of
Sublot No. 49; thence Southerly
along said Easterly line of East 87th
Street, 44 feet; thence Easterly on a
line parallel with the Northerly line
of Sublot No. 49, 110 feet; thence
Northerly on a line parallel with the
Easterly line of East 87th Street, 44
feet; thence Westerly 110 feet to the
place of beginning, as appears by
said plat.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months

The City Record
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed shall contain such provisions as
may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1454-99.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 8122, 8124, 8126, and
8128 Wade Park to Eaton N. Jones
and Keesha M. Jones.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
hereby authorized to sell Permanent
Parcel No(s). 106-19-021 and 106-19022, as more fully described in Section 2 below, to Eaton N. Jones and
Keesha M. Jones.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 106-19-021
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
10 and the Easterly 4 feet of Sublot
No. 9 in George M. Hicks’ Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 391 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 14 of
Maps, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and together forming a
parcel of land 46 feet front on the

1690

August 18, 1999
Southerly side of Wade Park Avenue, N.E., and extending back of
equal width 150 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
P.P. No. 106-19-022
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
11 in George M. Hicks’ Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 391, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 14 of Maps,
Page
3
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 42 feet front on
the Southerly side of Wade Park
Avenue N.E., and extending back of
equal width 150 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed shall contain such provisions as
may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1455-99.
By Councilman Melena (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an amendment
to City Contract No. 50991 with Thermagon, Inc. to modify various provisions of the lease.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into an amendment to Enterprise Zone Agreement,
City Contract No. 50991 between the
City and Thermagon, Inc. (“Amendment”), to amend the Enterprise
Zone Agreement in accordance with
the amended executive summary
contained in File No. 1455-99-A.

August 18, 1999
All other terms and conditions
contained in the original Enterprise
Zone Agreement shall remain the
same.
Section 2. That the Amendment
herein authorized shall be prepared
by the Director of Law and shall
contain such terms and conditions
as said Director deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1456-99.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
upgrade the fencing to be installed
as part of the West 61st Street
Retaining Wall Project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to
upgrade the fencing to be installed
as part of the West 61st Street
Retaining Wall Project to provide
for the erection of decorative fencing atop the retaining wall.
Section 2. That the costs of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed Fourteen Thousand Dollars ($14,000.00) and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1457-99.
By Councilman Melena (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic
Development to enter into a contract with Ripcho Studio, Inc. to provide
economic
development
assistance to partially finance the
land and building acquisition, demolition and construction of an addition to the real property located at
7630
Lorain
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
with Ripcho Studio, Inc. to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the land and building acquisition, demolition and construction of an addition to the real
property located at 7630 Lorain
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 2. That the term of said
loan shall be in accordance with the
terms as set forth in the Executive
Summary contained in File No. 145799-A.
Section 3. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed One Hundred and Fifty-Six Thousand Dollars
($156,000.00), and shall be paid from
Fund No. 17 SF 008, Request No.
1014.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept the collateral
as set forth in the Executive Summary contained in the file referenced in Section 2 of this ordinance
in order to secure repayment of said
loan. Any security instrument shall
be prepared and approved by the
Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of the
loan
and to
deposit said monies in Fund No. 17
SF 006.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and expend such fees to
cover costs incurred in the preparation of the loan application, closing
and servicing of the loan. Such fees
shall be deposited to and expended
from Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees
Fund.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1459-99.
By Councilman Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Bellaire-Puritas Festival Committee to stretch a banner across
Puritas at the intersection of Puritas and West 140th Street for the
period from September 3, 1999 to
October 11, 1999, inclusive, publicizing the Bellaire-Puritas Fall Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section
623.13 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleve-

1691

67
land, Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to the Bellaire-Puritas Festival Committee to
install, maintain and remove a banner across Puritas at the intersection of Puritas and West 140th
Street for the period from September
3, 1999 to October 11, 1999, inclusive.
Said banners shall be approved by
the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
banners will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banners and said banners shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1460-99.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to The Medical Center Company to encroach into the
right-of-way of East Blvd., Bellflower Rd., Juniper Rd. and Ford
Dr., for the Phase II installation and
extension of a chilled water line.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service hereby is authorized
to issue a permit, revocable at the
will of Council, and assignable by
the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to The Medical Center Company, 2250 Circle Drive, Cleveland,
Ohio 44106-4903, its successors and
assigns, for the construction, use
and maintenance of a Phase II
chilled water line extension, which
will encroach into the right-of-way
of East Boulevard, Bellflower Road,
Juniper Road and Ford Drive, at the
locations
more
fully
shown
by
Exhibit “A” filed in the office of the
Clerk of the Council of the City of
Cleveland, Ohio, and also known as
File Number 1460-99-A.
Section 2. That said Phase II
chilled water line extension will be
placed in the public right-of-way as
aforesaid in Section 1, and will be
constructed
in
accordance
with
plans and specifications approved
by the Commissioner of Engineering
and Construction.
Section 3. That the permit herein
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall be issued
only when in the opinion of the
Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified
against any and all loss which may
result from said permit.

68
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1461-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into a contract with Cleveland Letter Service to produce, address, sort
and deliver bulk mailings to the U.S.
Post Office for Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into contract with Cleveland Letter Service
to produce, address, sort and deliver bulk mailings to the U.S. Post
Office for Cleveland City Council for
a period of one (1) year commencing September 1, 1999, with an
option to renew for an additional
one (1) year, exercisable at the
Clerk’s discretion.
Section 2. That the annual cost of
said agreement shall not exceed
Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00)
and shall be payable from Fund No.
01 Subclass 01001.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1462-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into a contract with The Legal News
Publishing Co. for the production
and printing of ward newsletters for
Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into contract with The Legal News Publishing Co. for the production and printing of ward newsletters for Cleveland City Council for a period of one
(1) year commencing September 1,
1999, with an option to renew for an
additional one (1) year, exercisable
at the Clerk’s discretion.

The City Record
Section 2. That the annual cost of
said agreement shall not exceed Seventy-Five
Thousand
Dollars
($75,000.00) and shall be payable
from Fund No. 01 Subclass 01001.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1463-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into a contract with Brothers Printing Co. for the production, printing
and delivery of stationary items for
Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into contract with Brothers Printing Co. for
the production, printing and delivery of stationary items, including
letterhead,
envelopes,
business
cards, and note pads for Cleveland
City Council for a period of one (1)
year commencing September 1, 1999,
with an option to renew for an additional one (1) year, exercisable at
the Clerk’s discretion.
Section 2. That the annual cost of
said agreement shall not exceed
Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00)
and shall be payable from Fund No.
01 Subclass 01001.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1464-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development
to
enter
into
an
agreement with Wirenet to perform
pre-development work in advance
of environmental remediation of
the former P.O.C. brewery located
in Ward 18 of the City of Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement

1692

August 18, 1999
with Wirenet to perform pre-development work in advance of environmental remediation of the former
P.O.C. brewery located in Ward 18
of the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the costs of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed Six Thousand Dollars
($6,000.00) and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1465-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the President of Council to enter
into an agreement with Cleveland
State University, College of Urban
Affairs, to provide professional services to assist in the development of
Neighborhood
Priority
Plans
for
Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the the President
of Council is hereby authorized to
enter into an agreement with Cleveland State University, College of
Urban Affairs, to provide professional services to assist in the development
and
implementation
of
Neighborhood
Priority
Plans
for
Cleveland City Council.
Section 2. That the costs of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed Forty-Five Thousand Dollars ($45,000.00) and shall be paid
from Fund No. 01 SF 001.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999 without
the signature of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1466-99.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 18. (Debra Auld).
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,

August 18, 1999
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 18; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 18: Debra
Auld.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons
named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3. That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999 without
the signature of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1467-99.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in peddling in Ward 14. (Pedro Rodriguez).
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 14; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 14: Pedro
Rodriguez.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons
named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3. That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.

The City Record
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999 without
the signature of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1487-99.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at Kosciuszko Avenue
to George Edwards.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 107-07-040,
107-07-041 and 107-07-042, as more
fully described in Section 2 below,
to George Edwards.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 107-07-040
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
57 and part of a 12 foot alley vacated by City Ordinance 1937-38 in the
Posen Subdivision of a part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot Nos. 375
and 376 as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 20 of Maps, Page 29
of Cuyahoga County Records and
together being 30 feet front on the
Northerly
side
of
Kosciuszko
Avenue, N.E., and extending back
between parallel lines 105 feet to
the center line of said vacated alley,
as appears by said plat.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
P. P. No. 107-07-041
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and bounded and described as
follows:

1693

69
To wit: Known as being Sublot
No. 58 in the Posen Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot Nos. 375 and 376 in said City,
said Sublot No. 58 has a frontage of
35 feet on the Northerly side of
Kosciuszko Avenue (formerly Hoffman Street) and extends 99 feet
deep to an alley, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 20 of Maps,
Page
29
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
that
part
of
the
Southerly half of a 12 foot alley
lying Northerly of said Sublot No.
58, vacated by Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland passed September
12, 1938 and being Ordinance No.
1937-38.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
P. P. No. 107-07-042
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
59 and the Westerly 5 feet of Sublot
No. 60 and the Southerly one-half of
a vacated 12 foot alley, immediately to the rear, in Joseph Hoffman’s
“Posen” Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot Nos. 375
and 376 as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 20 of Maps, Page 29
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
together forming one parcel of land
40 feet front on the Northerly side
of (Hoffman Street) now known as
Kosciuszko Avenue and extending
back of equal width 105 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

The City Record

70
Ord. No. 1522-99.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Cleveland Browns
Race on September 11, 1999, sponsored by Hermes Sports & Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of a Cleveland Browns
Run sponsored by Hermes Sports &
Events, on September 11, 1999 starting at Erieside & W. 3rd St., go
Erieside east to E. 9th St., E. 9th St.
to
Lakeside
Avenue,
Lakeside
Avenue to W. 3rd St., W. 3rd St. to
St. Clair Avenue, St. Clair Avenue to
W. 9th St., W. 9th St. to Huron,
Huron to E. 9th St., E. 9th St. to
Erieside, Erieside to W. 3rd St. and
finish, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police or
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
event and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

Ord. No. 1523-99.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the 11th Congressional District Caucus to stretch banners at Stokes
Boulevard at Cedar Road (westerly
and easterly); and at Kinsman
Avenue
at
East
113th
Street
(northerly and southerly) for the
period of August 11, 1999 to September 11, 1999 inclusive, publicizing this special event.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to the 11th
Congressional District Caucus, to
install, maintain and remove banners at Stokes Boulevard at Cedar
Road (westerly and easterly; Cleveland Public Power Pole Numbers
88329 and 88330) and at Kinsman
Avenue
at
East
113th
Street
(southerly and northerly; Cleveland
Public Power Pole Numbers C30-2
and C30-30), for the period from
August 11, 1999 to September 11,
1999, inclusive. Said banners shall
be approved by the Director of Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements

August 18, 1999
of las or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banners and said banners shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 11, 1999.
Effective August 18, 1999.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Tuesday, August 10, 1999
Public Safety Committee: 10:00
A.M.—Present:
Coats,
Chairman;
Zone, Vice Chairman; Gordon, Jackson, Jones, Melena, O’Malley, White.
Excused: Willis.
Wednesday, August 11, 1999
Committee of the Whole: 9:30
A.M.—Present:
Westbrook,
Chairman; Cimperman, Cintron, Coats,
Dolan, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Melena, O’Malley, Patmon, Polensek, Robinson, Sweeney,
White, Willis, Zone. Excused: Britt,
Rybka.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
12:00 P.M.—Present: Coats, Chairman; Robinson, Sweeney, Zone. Excused: Britt.

Index
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

AES Management Corporation
Shepard Ct. S.E. — permit — right-of-way — AES Management Corporation
(O 1206-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1680

Agreements
Neighborhood Priority Plans — Cleveland City Council — agreement - Cleveland State
University — College of Urban Affairs (O 1465-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1655-1692

Ameritech
Ameritech — easement rights — West 117th Street and Linnet Avenue — Safety Department
(O 1425-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1637

1694

August 18, 1999

The City Record

71

Banners
11th Congressional District Caucus — Labor Day Picnic and Parade - Banner
(O 1523-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1656-1694
Bellaire-Puritas Fall Festival — banners — Bellaire-Puritas Festival Committee
(O 1459-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1653-1691
Children’s Day Care Center — two (2) banners — Mega Church (O 1441-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1648-1686
Fairhill Center — seven (7) banners — Special event (O 1439-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1647-1685
Little Italy 2000 Redevelopment — six (6) banners — annual festival (O 1440-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1647-1685
Project LEARN — permit — right-of-way — six (6) banners (O 1443-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1648-1686

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Public Hearing Agenda - August 4, 1999 — Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
(F 1387-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627

Board of Control - Clark Recreation Center
Lease property (PPN 006-16-006) for Clark Recreation Center parking - pursuant to Ord.
788-99 from Michalski Printing Company - Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 533-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1665

Board of Control - Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Bunker gear suits - contract pursuant to Ord. 609-98 to Dicar Corporation - Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 532-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1665

Board of Control - Cleveland Municipal Court
Probationers progress toward compliance automation and retrieval - contract pursuant to
Ord. 1249-95 and 275-97 to Syscon Justice Systems, Ltd. - behalf of Cleveland
Municipal Court, Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 531-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1665

Board of Control - Community Development Department
Cleveland Church of Christ - various parcels (Ward 8) pursuant to Ord. 1061-99
(BOC Res. 543-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1667
East 88th Street (Ward 2) - PPN 133-22-016 (northerly part) - to Shafone Palmer
(BOC Res. 535-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1665
East 88th Street (Ward 2) - PPN 133-22-016 (southerly part) - to David Williams
(BOC Res. 536-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1666
Holmden Avenue, S.W., 1067 (Ward 13) - PPN 008-14-063 - to Edward L. Reynolds
(BOC Res. 539-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1667
Newark Avenue, 3850 (Ward 14) - PPN 007-29-109 - to Carmelo Ciriclo (BOC Res. 541-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1667
Oakland Avenue, 12001-03 (Ward 9) - PPN 120-05-018 - to Pearlie Williams
(BOC Res. 537-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1666
Ohio City/Near West Development Corporation - various parcels (Ward 14) pursuant to Ord.
796-99 (BOC Res. 542-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1667
Prince Avenue, 10013 (Ward 2) - PPN 135-18-144 - to Frank Banks and Alma S. Banks
(BOC Res. 538-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1666
West 20th Street, 2205 and 2197 (Ward 14) - PPN 004-03-052/053 - to Isreal Colon and Aida
Vega (BOC Res. 540-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1667

Board of Control - Finance Department
Probationers progress toward compliance automation and retrieval - contract pursuant to
Ord. 1249-95 and 275-97 to Syscon Justice Systems, Ltd. - behalf of Cleveland
Municipal Court, Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 531-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1665

Board of Control - Highland Park Cemetery
Highland Park Cemetery Main Office Building renovation - rescind BOC Res. 120-99 contract pursuant to Ord. 1422-98 to Ralph Tyler, Inc. - Dept. of Parks, Recreation
and Properties (BOC Res. 534-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1665

1695

The City Record

72

August 18, 1999

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program
Cleveland Church of Christ - various parcels (Ward 8) pursuant to Ord. 1061-99
(BOC Res. 543-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1667
East 88th Street (Ward 2) - PPN 133-22-016 (northerly part) - to Shafone Palmer
(BOC Res. 535-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1665
East 88th Street (Ward 2) - PPN 133-22-016 (southerly part) - to David Williams
(BOC Res. 536-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1666
Holmden Avenue, S.W., 1067 (Ward 13) - PPN 008-14-063 - to Edward L. Reynolds
(BOC Res. 539-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1667
Newark Avenue, 3850 (Ward 14) - PPN 007-29-109 - to Carmelo Ciriclo (BOC Res. 541-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1667
Oakland Avenue, 12001-03 (Ward 9) - PPN 120-05-018 - to Pearlie Williams
(BOC Res. 537-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1666
Ohio City/Near West Development Corporation - various parcels (Ward 14) pursuant to Ord.
796-99 (BOC Res. 542-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1667
Prince Avenue, 10013 (Ward 2) - PPN 135-18-144 - to Frank Banks and Alma S. Banks
(BOC Res. 538-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1666
West 20th Street, 2205 and 2197 (Ward 14) - PPN 004-03-052/053 - to Isreal Colon and Aida
Vega (BOC Res. 540-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1667

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 2)
East 88th Street (Ward 2) - PPN 133-22-016 (northerly part) - to Shafone Palmer
(BOC Res. 535-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1665
East 88th Street (Ward 2) - PPN 133-22-016 (southerly part) - to David Williams
(BOC Res. 536-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1666
Prince Avenue, 10013 (Ward 2) - PPN 135-18-144 - to Frank Banks and Alma S. Banks
(BOC Res. 538-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1666

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 8)
Cleveland Church of Christ - various parcels (Ward 8) pursuant to Ord. 1061-99
(BOC Res. 543-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1667

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 9)
Oakland Avenue, 12001-03 (Ward 9) - PPN 120-05-018 - to Pearlie Williams
(BOC Res. 537-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1666

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 13)
Holmden Avenue, S.W., 1067 (Ward 13) - PPN 008-14-063 - to Edward L. Reynolds
(BOC Res. 539-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1667

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 14)
Newark Avenue, 3850 (Ward 14) - PPN 007-29-109 - to Carmelo Ciriclo (BOC Res. 541-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1667
Ohio City/Near West Development Corporation - various parcels (Ward 14) pursuant to Ord.
796-99 (BOC Res. 542-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1667
West 20th Street, 2205 and 2197 (Ward 14) - PPN 004-03-052/053 - to Isreal Colon and Aida
Vega (BOC Res. 540-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1667

Board of Control - Leases
Lease property (PPN 006-16-006) for Clark Recreation Center parking - pursuant to Ord.
788-99 from Michalski Printing Company - Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 533-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1665

Board of Control - Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Highland Park Cemetery Main Office Building renovation - rescind BOC Res. 120-99 contract pursuant to Ord. 1422-98 to Ralph Tyler, Inc. - Dept. of Parks, Recreation
and Properties (BOC Res. 534-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1665

1696

August 18, 1999

The City Record

73

Lease property (PPN 006-16-006) for Clark Recreation Center parking - pursuant to Ord.
788-99 from Michalski Printing Company - Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 533-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1665

Board of Control - Port Control Department
Bunker gear suits - contract pursuant to Ord. 609-98 to Dicar Corporation - Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 532-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1665

Board of Control - Professional Service Contracts
Highland Park Cemetery Main Office Building renovation - rescind BOC Res. 120-99 contract pursuant to Ord. 1422-98 to Ralph Tyler, Inc. - Dept. of Parks, Recreation
and Properties (BOC Res. 534-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1665
Probationers progress toward compliance automation and retrieval - contract pursuant to
Ord. 1249-95 and 275-97 to Syscon Justice Systems, Ltd. - behalf of Cleveland
Municipal Court, Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 531-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1665

Board of Control - Standard Purchase Contracts
Bunker gear suits - contract pursuant to Ord. 609-98 to Dicar Corporation - Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 532-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1665

Board of Zoning Appeals - Report
Brayton Avenue, 782, (Ward 13) – Guy Templeton Black, owner - appeal dismissed on 8/16/99
(Cal. 99-163) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1669
Chatham Avenue, 2925, (Ward 14) – Bruce Hedderson, owner - appeal granted and adopted on
8/16/99 (Cal. 99-179) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1669
Clark Avenue, 2704, (Ward 14) – Gerald Zahler, owner and Around the Clock Day Care, c/o
Tim Renfroe, tenant - appeal withdrawn 8/16/99 (Cal. 99-104) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1669
Easton Avenue, 9713, (Ward 3) – Barbara B. Malloy, owner - appeal heard on 8/16/99
(Cal. 99-188) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1669
Finney Avenue, , (Ward 12) – Slavic Village Development Corporation, owners, c/o Gerry
Durante - appeal postponed to 9/13/99 on 8/16/99 (Cal. 99-191) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1669
Fleet Avenue, 5315, (Ward 12) – Jennifer Thompson, owner - appeal granted and adopted on
8/16/99 (Cal. 99-147) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1669
Fleet Avenue, 5316, (Ward 12) – Joseph Fortuna, owner - appeal heard on 8/16/99
(Cal. 99-195) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1669
Hampton Road, 2983, (Ward 4) – Rysar Properties, owner, c/o Stuart Friedman, agent
- appeal withdrawn on 8/16/99 (Cal. 99-164) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1669
Johnston Parkway, 4545, (Ward 1) – Scovill/Hanna LLC, owner and Mike Curtis,
c/o Curtis/Layer General Contractors, agent - appeal granted and adopted on 8/16/99
(Cal. 99-197) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1669
Literary Road, 617, (Ward 13) – Tremont Ridge, Phase I Limited Partnership, owner, c/o
Keith Sutton - appeal granted and adopted on 8/16/99 (Cal. 99-183) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1669
Memphis Avenue, 3619, (Ward 15) – William J. Parent, owner and Robert A. Yalanty,
prospective purchaser - appeal heard on 8/16/99 (Cal. 99-194). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1669
Pearl Road, 4220, (Ward 15) – John Lozios, owner, and Zaremba Group, LLC, c/o John
Wojtila, agent, and CVS Pharmacy, purchaser - appeal granted and adopted on 8/16/99
(Cal. 99-121) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1669
St. Clair Avenue, 1946, (Ward 13) – Seaway Acceptance Corporation, owner, c/o N.K. Hejra
and Code Blue, Inc., tenant, c/o Kathy Thomas - appeal postponed to 10/4/99 on
8/16/99 (Cal. 99-190) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1669
Superior Avenue, 6602, (Ward 7) – Joseph Stokes, owner and Demetrious Davis, tenant
- appeal denied and adopted on 8/16/99 (Cal. 99-186). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1669
Warner Road, 4499, (Ward 2) – Nick Giurukis, owner and Mike Murray, c/o Parma
Lumber, agent - appeal heard on 8/16/99 (Cal. 99-196) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1669
Waterloo Road, 15721, (Ward 11) – Northeast Shores Development Corporation and Victoria
Smith, d.b.a. Little Hands and Feet, tenant - appeal postponed to 9/13/99 on 8/16/99
(Cal. 99-189) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1669

1697

The City Record

74

August 18, 1999

West 112th Street, 1294, (Ward 18) – John Barrick, owner - appeal denied and adopted on
8/16/99 (Cal. 99-185) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1669
West 117th Street, 3440-3442, (Ward 19) – Eduardo Galindo, owner - appeal granted
and adopted on 8/16/99 (Cal. 99-181). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1669

Board of Zoning Appeals - Schedule
Clark Avenue, 7300, (Ward 18) – Albert Seidowski, owner - appeal to be heard on 8/30/99
(Cal. 99-205) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1668
East 105th Street, 570, (a.k.a. 564-567 East 105th Street, a.k.a. 540 East 105th Street),
(Ward 8) – Shore Bank Enterprise Group, owner, c/o Diane Swander - appeal to
be heard on 8/30/99 (Cal. 99-192) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1668
East 185th Street, 781, (Ward 11) – Jane Boltz and Olga Stech, owners - appeal to
be heard on 8/30/99 (Cal. 99-207) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1668
East 61st Street, 2375, (Ward 5) – Gabriel’s Green Limited Partnership, owner and Tesco
Building, Inc., c/o Delores Graham - appeal to be heard on 8/30/99 (Cal. 99-206) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1668
Euclid Avenue, 1127, (a.k.a. 1111-1131 Euclid Avenue), (Ward 13) – Statler Arms
Inc., owner and Eric Pempus, agent - appeal to be heard on 8/30/99 (Cal. 99-222) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1668
Euclid Avenue, 401, (a.k.a. 402-508 Superior Avenue), (Ward 13) – Cleveland Arcade Ltd.
Partners, owner and Old Arcade, LLC, prospective purchaser, and Hyatt Hotels
Corporation, tenant and Kevin Dreyfuss-Wells, agent - appeal to be heard on 8/30/99
(Cal. 99-210) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1668
Jefferson Avenue, 811, (a.k.a. 807 Jefferson Avenue), (Ward 13) – Urban Housing Ltd.
Partnership, owner, c/o Doug Perkowski, agent - appeal to be heard on 8/30/99
(Cal. 99-204) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1668

City of Cleveland Bids
Cab (single axle) and chassis with dump body - Department of Public Service - Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance - per Ord. 1074-98 - bid due September
3, 1999(advertised 8/11/99 and 8/18/99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1670
Continental Airlines - Cleveland 2000, Bid Package 21 - Parking Facilities Pavement
Rehabilitation - Department of Port Control - bid due August 26, 1999(advertised 8/11/99 and 8/18/99) . . . . 1670
Copper pipe - Department of Public Utilities - Division of Water - per C.O. Sec. 129.26
- bid due September 2, 1999(advertised 8/11/99 and 8/18/99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1670
Criminal and Civil filing system (Year 2000) - Department of Finance - behalf
of Cleveland Municipal Court - per Ord. 1276-99 - bid due September 10,
1999(advertised 8/18/99 and 8/25/99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1670
Fencing at various baseball diamond field, replacement of - Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties - Division of Park Maintenance and Properties - per
Ord. 1777-97 - bid due September 3, 1999(advertised 8/11/99 and 8/18/99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1670
Fencing, installation, maintenance and repair of - Department of Port Control - per Ord.
949-99 - bid due September 2, 1999(advertised 8/11/99 and 8/18/99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1670
Fire extinguishing agents - Department of Port Control - per Ord. 1068-99 - bid due
September 10, 1999(advertised 8/18/99 and 8/25/99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1670
Heavy-duty equipment and operators, rental of - Department of Port Control per Ord. 1065-99 - bid due September 10, 1999(advertised 8/18/99 and 8/25/99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1670
Hydraulic cylinder repair - Department of Public Service - Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance - per Ord. 798-99 - bid due August 27, 1999(advertised 8/11/99 and 8/18/99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1670
Residential Sound Insulation Program, Phase 2, Group G-99 - Department of Port Control
- per Ord. 469-98 - bid due September 9, 1999(advertised 8/18/99 and 8/25/99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1670
Roofs, labor and materials to repair and/or replace - Department of Public Utilities Division of Water Pollution Control - per Ord. 534-94 - bid due September 2,
1999(advertised 8/18/99 and 8/25/99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1670
Stop cock boxes - Department of Public Utilities - Division of Water - per C.O. Sec.
129.26 - bid due September 2, 1999(advertised 8/11/99 and 8/18/99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1670
Tire recapping - Department of Public Service - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance per Ord. 792-99 - bid due August 27, 1999(advertised 8/11/99 and 8/18/99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1670

1698

August 18, 1999

The City Record

75

Brookside Park
Brookside Park Ball Diamond #1 — lease — St. Ignatius High School (O 1427-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1638

Brothers Printing Company
Brothers Printing Co. — contract — stationary items — Clerk of Council
(O 1463-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1654-1692

Buckeye Area Development Corporation
Buckeye Area Development Corporation — services and equipment — Ward 4 — Community
Development (O 1449-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1650-1688

Burke Lakefront Airport
Federal Aviation Administration — lease agreement — Burke Lakefront Airport — United
States of America (O 1418-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1636

Charter
Qualifications of Council Members — amend Section 26 of the Charter (O 1409-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1629

City Council
Brothers Printing Co. — contract — stationary items — Clerk of Council
(O 1463-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1654-1692
Cleveland Letter Service — contract — U.S. Post Office — Cleveland City Council
(O 1461-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1654-1692
KKK rally August 21, 1999 — request to void permits — Cleveland City Council
(R 1469-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1656-1671
Neighborhood Priority Plans — Cleveland City Council — agreement - Cleveland State
University — College of Urban Affairs (O 1465-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1655-1692
Qualifications of Council Members — amend Section 26 of the Charter (O 1409-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1629
The Legal News Publishing Co. — contract — Clerk of Council (O 1462-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1654-1692

City Planning Commission
Authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to sell City-owned property
no longer needed for public use located at the City of Cleveland’s municipal parking
lot between East 139th - East 140th (O 257-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1663-1677

City Planning Department
Carlos Avenue S.W. and West 47th Street — northwest, southwest and northeast corners —
change the Use District (O 1434-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1646
Planned Unit Development Overlay District — northwest and southwest corners of Center
Street and Riverbed — southeast corner of Center Street and Washington
(O 1433-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1646
Signs for shopping centers and other business uses — Amend Sections 350.14, 350.19 and
350.20 (O 1435-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1641

Clerk of Courts
Security equipment — Clerk of Courts —

Finance Department (O 1258-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1681

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
West Hangar Road — public improvement — site improvements — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (O 1419-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1636

1699

The City Record

76

August 18, 1999

Cleveland Letter Service
Cleveland Letter Service — contract — U.S. Post Office — Cleveland City Council
(O 1461-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1654-1692

Cleveland Public Power
Clean and test insulators, bushings and lightning arrestors — Cleveland Public Power
(O 1259-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1681
Comprehensive security system — fencing, gates, barriers — Water Division — Cleveland
Public Power - Water Pollution Control (O 1414-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1634
Design and construction of capital projects — Water Division, Cleveland Public Power,
Water Pollution Control (O 1288-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1685
Landscaping and snow removal services — Cleveland Public Power (O 1260-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1681

Cleveland State University
Neighborhood Priority Plans — Cleveland City Council — agreement - Cleveland State
University — College of Urban Affairs (O 1465-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1655-1692

Codified Ordinances
Graffiti - ticket for failure to remove — new Section 3103.111 — Service Department
(O 1424-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1637
Homestead rates — additional eligibility — amend Section 535.051 (O 1411-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1629
Qualifications of Council Members — amend Section 26 of the Charter (O 1409-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1629
Right-of-Way permits — new Sections 510.01 to 510.17 and 510.99 (O 1412-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1630
Sections 603.02, 604.01, 604.03, 604.04 and 604.99 — amend — vicious dogs
(O 957-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1663-1678
Signs for shopping centers and other business uses — Amend Sections 350.14, 350.19 and
350.20 (O 1435-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1641

Committee on Mayor’s Appointments
Buckshot, Janet — Community Relations Board — Approved (F 1201-99-A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Fuentes, Edna — Community Relations Board — Approved (F 1198-99-A). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Hall, Kathryn — Community Relations Board — Approved (F 500-98-A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Nolan, John — Fair Housing Review Board — Approved (F 1205-99-A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628

Communications
AIP Grant Award — Port Control (F 1389-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
Audit of Financial Statements for various divisions — Public Utilities
(F 1385-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
Certified MBEs and FBEs Reporting period: Second Quarter, 1999 — Office of Equal
Opportunity (F 1384-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
Emergency Requisition (RE-08010) — Purchases and Supplies Division (F 1390-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
MBEs/FBEs Deleted from OEO’s Database Second Quarter, 1999 (F 1383-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
Meeting Agenda - July 22, 1999 — Cleveland Landmarks Commission (F 1382-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
Public Hearing Agenda - August 4, 1999 — Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
(F 1387-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
Public Notice No. 99-08-017 — Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (F 1388-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
Quarterly Regular Updated - July 21, 1999 — Community Advisory Committees
(F 1386-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627

Community Advisory Committees (Railroad Agreements)
Quarterly Regular Updated - July 21, 1999 — Community Advisory Committees
(F 1386-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627

1700

August 18, 1999

The City Record

77

Community Development
Buckeye Area Development Corporation — services and equipment — Ward 4 — Community
Development (O 1449-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1650-1688
Building condition survey — historic block East 105th Street — Richard Fleischman
Architects, Inc. — Neighborhood Development (O 1447-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1649-1687
Central Avenue and Hawthorne Avenue — Land Reutilization Program — Goodwill Industries
of Greater Cleveland (O 1430-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1639
Community events — Ward 10 —E.B.C. FERRY (O 1446-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1649-1687
East 66th Street, 1616 and 1610-12 — Land Reutilization Program — Keith Benford
and Sylvia Benford (O 1450-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1650-1688
East 82nd Street, 1619 and 1623 — Land Reutilization Program — Jacqueline Flournoy
(O 1452-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1651-1689
East 87th Street, 1795 and 1791 — Land Reutilization Program — Bobbie Laster and
Geraldine Laster (O 1453-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1652-1690
East 98th Street, 1132 and 1136 — Land Reutilization Program — Charles Hall and Brenda
J. Hall (O 1458-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1645
Environmental remediation — P.O.C. brewery — Ward 18 — Wirenet — Community Development
(O 1464-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1654-1692
Hough Avenue — Land Reutilization Program — Leodis C. Matthews (O 1451-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1651-1688
Kosciuszko Avenue — Land Reutilization Program — George Edwards (O 1487-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1655-1693
Wade Park, 8122, 8124, 8126 and 8128 — Land Reutilization Program — Eaton N. Jones and
Keesha M. Jones (O 1454-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1652-1690
West 46th Street and West 47th Street — Sell — Rysar Properties, Inc.
(O 1267-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1683
Whittier Avenue — Land Reutilization Program — Joni Janine Johnson (O 1444-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1649-1687
Woodland Avenue, 5708-10 — Land Reutilization Program — First Beulah Baptist Church
(O 1437-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1645

Concession Agreement
Vending machines — concession agreement — City parks, City-owned and City-leased
buildings — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department (O 1428-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1639

Condolences
Addison Paul, George Sr. (R 1489-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Bell, Joseph Franklin (R 1491-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Greene, Adger (R 1488-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Gruber, Roman F. (R 1493-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Oliver, Darnell Jr. (R 1495-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Paul, George A. Sr. (R 1490-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Slocum, Milton Sr. (R 1496-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Stewart, Theopolis “Buster” (R 1494-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Wilson, Nathaniel Sr. (R 1492-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628

Congratulations
Annunciation Catholic Church (R 1504-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Concord Baptist Church - 25th Anniversary (R 1509-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Fleming, Luceille (R 1507-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Forest City Park Civic Association (R 1501-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Goldsby, Lillian Karina (R 1508-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Hyvnar, Vaclav and Miloslava (R 1503-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Jarrett-Robinson-Terrell Family Reunion (R 1510-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Jones, Iris (R 1499-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Kuenzil, Robert Detective (R 1506-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Masilonis, Joseph Detective (R 1505-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
May Dugan Center (R 1497-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Minor, Elder Thomas A. (R 1500-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Mr. Zion congregational Church - 135th Anniversary (R 1511-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Polish American Congress, Ohio Division (R 1502-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
White, Pastor Merita D. (R 1498-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628

1701

The City Record

78

August 18, 1999

Congress of United States
Energy Policy and Conservation Act — eliminate certain regulations — plumbing supplies
— H.R. 623 (R 1468-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1656-1671

Contracts
Brothers Printing Co. — contract — stationary items — Clerk of Council
(O 1463-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1654-1692
Cleveland Letter Service — contract — U.S. Post Office — Cleveland City Council
(O 1461-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1654-1692
Lorain Avenue, 7630 — addition to property — Ripcho Studio, Inc. — Economic Development
(O 1457-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1653-1691
The Legal News Publishing Co. — contract — Clerk of Council (O 1462-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1654-1692
Thermagon, Inc. — amend City Contract No. 50991 — Economic Development
(O 1455-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1653-1690

E.B.C. Ferry Development Corporation
Community events — Ward 10 —E.B.C. FERRY (O 1446-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1649-1687

Easements
Ameritech — easement rights — West 117th Street and Linnet Avenue — Safety Department
(O 1425-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1637

Economic Development Department
East 55th Street, 1294 — Enterprise Zone Agreement — United Chrysalis, LTD — Economic
Development (O 1269-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1684
East 55th Street, 1294 — acquire and renovate — United Chrysalis, LTD — Economic
Development (O 1268-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1684
Lorain Avenue, 7630 — addition to property — Ripcho Studio, Inc. — Economic Development
(O 1457-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1653-1691
Market the City of Cleveland — commercials, television programs, major motion pictures
— Greater Cleveland Media Development Corporation — grant (O 1448-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1650-1688
Prepayment of UDAG loan — renovation and tenant build out — 301 W. Prospect — Post
Office Plaza Limited Partnership — Economic Development (O 1432-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1640
Thermagon, Inc. — amend City Contract No. 50991 — Economic Development
(O 1455-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1653-1690

Enterprise Zone Agreement
East 55th Street, 1294 — Enterprise Zone Agreement — United Chrysalis, LTD — Economic
Development (O 1269-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1684

Equal Opportunity Office
James H. Walker Construction Management Training Course — registration — supplies —
refreshments — Mayor (O 1438-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1647-1685

Euclid Creek
Euclid Creek Reservation — Public improvement — water facilities — Utilities Department
(O 1410-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1629

Federal Aviation Administration
Federal Aviation Administration — lease agreement — Burke Lakefront Airport — United
States of America (O 1418-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1636

1702

August 18, 1999

The City Record

79

Finance Department
Authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to sell City-owned property
no longer needed for public use located at the City of Cleveland’s municipal parking
lot between East 139th - East 140th (O 257-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1663-1677
Security equipment — Clerk of Courts —

Finance Department (O 1258-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1681

Graffiti
Graffiti - ticket for failure to remove — new Section 3103.111 — Service Department
(O 1424-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1637

Grants
2000 Selective Traffic Enforcement Program — grant — Ohio Department of Public Safety
(O 1426-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1638
Market the City of Cleveland — commercials, television programs, major motion pictures
— Greater Cleveland Media Development Corporation — grant (O 1448-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1650-1688
Metropolitan Medical Response System Development Program — grant — Public Health Service
- Department of Health and Human Services (O 1265-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1683

Greater Cleveland Media Development Corporation
Market the City of Cleveland — commercials, television programs, major motion pictures
— Greater Cleveland Media Development Corporation — grant (O 1448-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1650-1688

Health and Human Services Department
Metropolitan Medical Response System Development Program — grant — Public Health Service
- Department of Health and Human Services (O 1265-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1683

Homestead Rates
Homestead rates — additional eligibility — amend Section 535.051 (O 1411-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1629

IMG Motorsports-Cleveland, Inc.,
IMG Motorsports-Cleveland, Inc. — Second Amendment — Lease By Way of Concession — Port
Control Department (O 1420-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1636

James Walker Construction Management Training Course
James H. Walker Construction Management Training Course — registration — supplies —
refreshments — Mayor (O 1438-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1647-1685

Job Training Partnership Act
Title IIA and IIC of the 1999 Job Training Partnership Act — Memorandum of understanding
— Personnel and Safety Department (O 1431-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1640

Land Reutilization Program
Central Avenue and Hawthorne Avenue — Land Reutilization Program — Goodwill Industries
of Greater Cleveland (O 1430-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1639
East 66th Street, 1616 and 1610-12 — Land Reutilization Program — Keith Benford
and Sylvia Benford (O 1450-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1650-1688
East 82nd Street, 1619 and 1623 — Land Reutilization Program — Jacqueline Flournoy
(O 1452-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1651-1689
East 87th Street, 1795 and 1791 — Land Reutilization Program — Bobbie Laster and
Geraldine Laster (O 1453-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1652-1690
East 98th Street, 1132 and 1136 — Land Reutilization Program — Charles Hall and Brenda
J. Hall (O 1458-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1645
Hough Avenue — Land Reutilization Program — Leodis C. Matthews (O 1451-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1651-1688

1703

The City Record

80

August 18, 1999

Kosciuszko Avenue — Land Reutilization Program — George Edwards (O 1487-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1655-1693
Wade Park, 8122, 8124, 8126 and 8128 — Land Reutilization Program — Eaton N. Jones and
Keesha M. Jones (O 1454-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1652-1690
Whittier Avenue — Land Reutilization Program — Joni Janine Johnson (O 1444-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1649-1687
Woodland Avenue, 5708-10 — Land Reutilization Program — First Beulah Baptist Church
(O 1437-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1645

Landmarks Commission
Meeting Agenda - July 22, 1999 — Cleveland Landmarks Commission (F 1382-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627

Lease Agreement
Federal Aviation Administration — lease agreement — Burke Lakefront Airport — United
States of America (O 1418-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1636

Lease by Way of Concession
IMG Motorsports-Cleveland, Inc. — Second Amendment — Lease By Way of Concession — Port
Control Department (O 1420-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1636

Leases
Brookside Park Ball Diamond #1 — lease — St. Ignatius High School (O 1427-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1638

Legal News Publishing Company
The Legal News Publishing Co. — contract — Clerk of Council (O 1462-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1654-1692

Liquor Permits
Ashbury Avenue, 11025 (Ward 9) — Objecting to renewal (R 1486-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1662-1677
Berea Road rear, 10630 (Ward 18) — Objection to renewal (R 1478-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660-1674
Broadview Road, 2136, first floor and basement (Ward 15) — Transfer of Ownership
(F 1400-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Denison Avenue, 9501 (Ward 18) — Objecting to renewal (R 1480-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660-1674
Detroit Avenue, 11213-15 (Ward 18) — Objecting to the renewal (R 1479-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660-1674
East 125th Street, 466 (Ward 10) — Objecting to transfer of ownership (R 1473-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1658-1672
East 125th Street, 466 (Ward 10) — Transfer of Ownership (F 1396-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
East 140th Street, 831 (Ward 10) — Objecting to transfer of ownership (R 1481-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660-1675
East 140th Street, 831 (Ward 10) — Transfer of Ownership (F 1401-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
East 185th Street, 791 (Ward 11) — Withdrawing objection to stock transfer
(R 1470-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1657-1671
East 93rd Street, 3111 (Ward 4) — Objecting to stock transfer (R 1474-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1658-1672
East 93rd Street, 3111 (Ward 4) — Stock Transfer (F 1403-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Emerald Court S.W., 4900 (Ward 20) — New Application (F 1395-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
Euclid Avenue, 9601 (Ward 6) — New Application (F 1391-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
Fleet Avenue, 5407 (Ward 12) — Objecting to renewal (R 1476-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1659-1673
Lorain Avenue 13000 (Ward 19) — Objecting to transfer of ownership (R 1485-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1662-1676
Lorain Avenue, 13000 (Ward 19) — Transfer of Ownership (F 1399-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Market Street, 2523, first floor, basement and patio (Ward 14) — Transfer of Ownership
(F 1402-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Payne Avenue, 4409 (Ward 13) — Objecting to transfer of ownership (R 1483-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661-1675
Proposed assignment of liquor agency contract (Ward 12) — Ohio Division of Liquor Control
(F 1405-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Proposed relocation of liquor agency contract (Ward 7) — Ohio Division of Liquor Control
(F 1404-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Prospect Avenue, 527 (Ward 13) — New Application (F 1394-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
Union Avenue, 12408 ( Ward 3) — New Application (F 1393-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
Union Avenue, 12408 (Ward 3) — Objecting to issuance of C1 and C2 (R 1472-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1657-1672
West 117th Street, 3469 (Ward 19) — Objecting to renewal of D5 (R 1471-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1657-1671
West 117th Street, 3477-79 (Ward 19) — Objecting to renewal of C1 (R 1475-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1659-1673

1704

August 18, 1999

The City Record

81

West 32nd Street, 3258, first floor and basement (Ward 14) — Transfer of Ownership
(F 1398-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
West 65th Street, 3228 (Ward 17) — New Application (F 1392-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
West 65th Street, 3228 (Ward 17) — Objecting to issuance of C1 (R 1482-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661-1675
West 73rd Street, 3153 (Ward 18) — Objection to transfer of ownership (R 1477-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1659-1673
West 84th Street, 3175, first floor (Ward 18) — Transfer of Ownership (F 1397-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
West Sixth Street, 1229 (Ward 13) — Objecting to stock transfer (R 1484-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1662-1676

Little Italy
Little Italy 2000 Redevelopment — six (6) banners — annual festival (O 1440-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1647-1685

Mayor
Right-of-Way permits — new Sections 510.01 to 510.17 and 510.99 (O 1412-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1630

Mayor’s Appointments
Buckshot, Janet — Community Relations Board — Approved (F 1201-99-A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Fuentes, Edna — Community Relations Board — Approved (F 1198-99-A). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Hall, Kathryn — Community Relations Board — Approved (F 500-98-A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Nolan, John — Fair Housing Review Board — Approved (F 1205-99-A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628

Memoranda of Understanding
Title IIA and IIC of the 1999 Job Training Partnership Act — Memorandum of understanding
— Personnel and Safety Department (O 1431-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1640

Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Automobile, van and truck parts — Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 1264-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1682

Mt. Pleasant Now Development Corporation
Authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to sell City-owned property
no longer needed for public use located at the City of Cleveland’s municipal parking
lot between East 139th - East 140th (O 257-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1663-1677

Neighborhood Development Division
Building condition survey — historic block East 105th Street — Richard Fleischman
Architects, Inc. — Neighborhood Development (O 1447-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1649-1687

Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
Public Notice No. 99-08-017 — Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (F 1388-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to sell City-owned property
no longer needed for public use located at the City of Cleveland’s municipal parking
lot between East 139th - East 140th (O 257-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1663-1677
Brookside Park Ball Diamond #1 — lease — St. Ignatius High School (O 1427-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1638
Herron Row - Kingsbury Avenue — sell City-owned property — Karl F. Morris and Sue I.
Morris (O 1429-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1639
Vending machines — concession agreement — City parks, City-owned and City-leased
buildings — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department (O 1428-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1639

Peddlers
Auld, Debra — Ward 18 — peddling (O 1466-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1655-1692
Rodriguez, Pedro (Ward 14) — peddler (O 1467-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1655-1693

1705

The City Record

82

August 18, 1999

Permits
11th Congressional District Caucus — Labor Day Picnic and Parade - Banner
(O 1523-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1656-1694
Bellaire-Puritas Fall Festival — banners — Bellaire-Puritas Festival Committee
(O 1459-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1653-1691
Children’s Day Care Center — two (2) banners — Mega Church (O 1441-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1648-1686
Cleveland Browns Run — September 11, 1999 (O 1522-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1656-1693
Fairhill Center — seven (7) banners — Special event (O 1439-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1647-1685
Light the Night Leukemia Walk-A-Thon — permit — Leukemia Society (O 1445-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1649-1687
Little Italy 2000 Redevelopment — six (6) banners — annual festival (O 1440-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1647-1685
Phase II installation and extension of chilled water line — permit — Medical Center
Company — right-of-way (O 1460-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1654-1691
Project LEARN — permit — right-of-way — six (6) banners (O 1443-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1648-1686
Right-of-Way permits — new Sections 510.01 to 510.17 and 510.99 (O 1412-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1630
St. Ignatius Run — permit — St. Ignatius High School (O 1442-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1648-1686

Personnel Department
Title IIA and IIC of the 1999 Job Training Partnership Act — Memorandum of understanding
— Personnel and Safety Department (O 1431-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1640

Planned Unit Development Overlay District
Planned Unit Development Overlay District — northwest and southwest corners of Center
Street and Riverbed — southeast corner of Center Street and Washington
(O 1433-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1646

Port Control Department
AIP Grant Award — Port Control (F 1389-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
Federal Aviation Administration — lease agreement — Burke Lakefront Airport — United
States of America (O 1418-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1636
IMG Motorsports-Cleveland, Inc. — Second Amendment — Lease By Way of Concession — Port
Control Department (O 1420-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1636
Voice recording equipment — service, repair and maintenance — Port Control Department
(O 1261-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1681
West Hangar Road — public improvement — site improvements — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (O 1419-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1636

Post Office
Prepayment of UDAG loan — renovation and tenant build out — 301 W. Prospect — Post
Office Plaza Limited Partnership — Economic Development (O 1432-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1640

Purchases and Supplies Department
Authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to sell City-owned property
no longer needed for public use located at the City of Cleveland’s municipal parking
lot between East 139th - East 140th (O 257-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1663-1677
Emergency Requisition (RE-08010) — Purchases and Supplies Division (F 1390-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
Herron Row - Kingsbury Avenue — sell City-owned property — Karl F. Morris and Sue I.
Morris (O 1429-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1639
West 46th Street and West 47th Street — Sell — Rysar Properties, Inc.
(O 1267-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1683

Recognitions
Avila, Bobby (R 1517-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1629
Busbey, Robert F. (R 1519-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1629
Caruso, Father Vincent, O.de M. (R 1520-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1629

1706

August 18, 1999

The City Record

83

Glenn, Stanley (R 1516-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1629
Johnson, Clifford Jr. (R 1514-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1629
Mexican Baseball Hall of Fame (R 1512-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Negro League Baseball Players Association (R 1515-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1629
Power, Vic (R 1518-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1629
Saturnaino Orestes Arrieta Armas “Minnie” Minoso (R 1513-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Energy Policy and Conservation Act — eliminate certain regulations — plumbing supplies
— H.R. 623 (R 1468-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1656-1671
KKK rally August 21, 1999 — request to void permits — Cleveland City Council
(R 1469-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1656-1671

Right-of-Way
Phase II installation and extension of chilled water line — permit — Medical Center
Company — right-of-way (O 1460-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1654-1691
Right-of-Way permits — new Sections 510.01 to 510.17 and 510.99 (O 1412-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1630
Shepard Ct. S.E. — permit — right-of-way — AES Management Corporation
(O 1206-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1680

Safety Department
2000 Selective Traffic Enforcement Program — grant — Ohio Department of Public Safety
(O 1426-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1638
Ameritech — easement rights — West 117th Street and Linnet Avenue — Safety Department
(O 1425-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1637
Metropolitan Medical Response System Development Program — grant — Public Health Service
- Department of Health and Human Services (O 1265-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1683
Sections 603.02, 604.01, 604.03, 604.04 and 604.99 — amend — vicious dogs
(O 957-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1663-1678
Title IIA and IIC of the 1999 Job Training Partnership Act — Memorandum of understanding
— Personnel and Safety Department (O 1431-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1640

Service Department
Alpha Court S.E. — change name — “Benjamin Rose Court S.E.” (O 1421-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1637
Automobile, van and truck parts — Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 1264-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1682
Bellaire-Puritas Fall Festival — banners — Bellaire-Puritas Festival Committee
(O 1459-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1653-1691
Children’s Day Care Center — two (2) banners — Mega Church (O 1441-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1648-1686
Cleveland Business Park Drive — change name — “Cleveland Parkway S.W.”
(O 1423-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1637
East 33rd Street — vacate (R 1436-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1647
East 82nd Street and Betts Court, S. E. — vacate portion (R 1207-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1665-1670
Fairhill Center — seven (7) banners — Special event (O 1439-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1647-1685
Glass Avenue N.E. — change name — “Lausche Avenue N.E.” (O 1422-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1637
Graffiti - ticket for failure to remove — new Section 3103.111 — Service Department
(O 1424-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1637
Little Italy 2000 Redevelopment — six (6) banners — annual festival (O 1440-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1647-1685
Phase II installation and extension of chilled water line — permit — Medical Center
Company — right-of-way (O 1460-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1654-1691
Project LEARN — permit — right-of-way — six (6) banners (O 1443-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1648-1686
Rock salt — purchase — Streets Divisions (O 1119-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1680
Shepard Ct. S.E. — permit — right-of-way — AES Management Corporation
(O 1206-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1680
West 61st Street Retaining Wall Project — upgrade fencing — Service Department
(O 1456-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1653-1691

1707

The City Record

84

August 18, 1999

Signs
Signs for shopping centers and other business uses — Amend Sections 350.14, 350.19 and
350.20 (O 1435-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1641

St. Ignatius High School
Brookside Park Ball Diamond #1 — lease — St. Ignatius High School (O 1427-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1638
St. Ignatius Run — permit — St. Ignatius High School (O 1442-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1648-1686

Statement of Work Acceptance
Maplewood Ball Diamond Complex Fence Improvements — Parks, Recreation and Properties
Department (F 1406-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Nerone & Sons, Contract No. 53206 A & B — Utilities Department (F 1408-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Residential Sound Insulation — Port Control (F 1407-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628

Streets - Name
Alpha Court S.E. — change name — “Benjamin Rose Court S.E.” (O 1421-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1637
Cleveland Business Park Drive — change name — “Cleveland Parkway S.W.”
(O 1423-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1637
Glass Avenue N.E. — change name — “Lausche Avenue N.E.” (O 1422-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1637

Streets - Vacation
East 33rd Street — vacate (R 1436-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1647
East 82nd Street and Betts Court, S. E. — vacate portion (R 1207-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1665-1670
Rockwell Avenue N.E. — vacate (O 1262-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1682
Star Court S.W. — vacate (O 1263-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1682

Streets Division
Rock salt — purchase — Streets Divisions (O 1119-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1680

Surveys
Building condition survey — historic block East 105th Street — Richard Fleischman
Architects, Inc. — Neighborhood Development (O 1447-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1649-1687

Utilities Department
Audit of Financial Statements for various divisions — Public Utilities
(F 1385-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
Clean and test insulators, bushings and lightning arrestors — Cleveland Public Power
(O 1259-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1681
Comprehensive security system — fencing, gates, barriers — Water Division — Cleveland
Public Power - Water Pollution Control (O 1414-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1634
Design and construction of capital projects — Water Division, Cleveland Public Power,
Water Pollution Control (O 1288-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1685
Euclid Creek Reservation — Public improvement — water facilities — Utilities Department
(O 1410-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1629
Hydraulic testing equipment, internal pipeline inspection system and leak detection and
location system — Water Division (O 1416-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1635
Landscaping and snow removal services — Cleveland Public Power (O 1260-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1681
Maintain and repair elevators — Water Division — Utilities Department
(O 1413-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1634
Repair water mains and appurtenances — Water Division (O 1415-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1635
Trac-vac residuals collection system — Water Division (O 1417-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1635

Vicious Dogs
Sections 603.02, 604.01, 604.03, 604.04 and 604.99 — amend — vicious dogs
(O 957-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1663-1678

1708

August 18, 1999

The City Record

85

Walk-A-Thons
Light the Night Leukemia Walk-A-Thon — permit — Leukemia Society (O 1445-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1649-1687

Water Division
Comprehensive security system — fencing, gates, barriers — Water Division — Cleveland
Public Power - Water Pollution Control (O 1414-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1634
Design and construction of capital projects — Water Division, Cleveland Public Power,
Water Pollution Control (O 1288-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1685
Hydraulic testing equipment, internal pipeline inspection system and leak detection and
location system — Water Division (O 1416-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1635
Maintain and repair elevators — Water Division — Utilities Department
(O 1413-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1634
Repair water mains and appurtenances — Water Division (O 1415-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1635
Trac-vac residuals collection system — Water Division (O 1417-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1635

Water Pollution Control Division
Comprehensive security system — fencing, gates, barriers — Water Division — Cleveland
Public Power - Water Pollution Control (O 1414-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1634
Design and construction of capital projects — Water Division, Cleveland Public Power,
Water Pollution Control (O 1288-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664-1685

Welcome
Hernandez Agosto, Miguel (R 1521-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1629

West 61st Street Retaining Wall Project
West 61st Street Retaining Wall Project — upgrade fencing — Service Department
(O 1456-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1653-1691

1709

