The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

May the Eighteenth, Two Thousand and Five

Jane L. Campbell
Mayor

Frank G. Jackson
President of Council

Valarie J. McCall
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Kevin J. Kelley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
29
29
32
32
35
35
35
35
36
68
69

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner

President of Council – Frank G. Jackson
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ...................................................4691 East 177th Street
Robert J. White .................................................9703 Cardwell Avenue
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson..................................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt........................................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis.........................................................7416 Star Avenue
Sabra Pierce Scott ..............................................9212 Kempton Avenue
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
Roosevelt Coats ....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka .................................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman....................................................3053 West 12th Street
Nelson Cintron, Jr. ....................................................3004 Vega Avenue
Merle R. Gordon .................................................1700 Denison Avenue
Kevin J. Kelley ..............................................6608 Woodhaven Avenue
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ...............................................16519 West Park Road
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Valarie J. McCall, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Jane L. Campbell
Christopher S. Ronayne, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer
Craig Tame, Executive Assistant
Collette J. Appolito, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
Margreat A. Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison
Erik Janas, Inter-Governmental Affairs Officer
Lorna Wisham, Chief Public Affairs Officer

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44106
44112
44119
44105
44113
44113
44109
44144
44102
44102
44102
44111
44111

DEPT. OF LAW – Teresa M. Beasley, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Robert H. Baker, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Alan Schneider, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 1404 East 9th Street
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Julius Ciaccia, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – John C. Mok, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matthew Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Anjou Parekh, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Sanford E. Watson, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Natalie A. Ronayne, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – James G. Williams, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Gina Routen, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Gregory G. Huth, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane E. Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Kenya Taylor, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Director; Mayor Jane
L. Campbell, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L.
Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry, Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline
Hardaway, Janet Jankura, Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J.
Livingstone, Margot James Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Jonalyn M. Krupka, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
William Morrison.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Jane L. Campbell, President; Council President Frank
G. Jackson; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Robert H. Baker, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Margaret Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan,
______________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; James Williams, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank,
E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Teresa M. Beasley, President;
Finance Director Robert H. Baker, Secretary; Council President Frank G. Jackson.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto; Law Director
Teresa M. Beasley; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Teresa M. Beasley; Utilities
Director Julius Ciaccia; Council President Frank G. Jackson.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Rev. Sam Edward Small, Councilman Joseph Cimperman.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb,Council
Member Nelson Cintron, Ed Romero.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton, Council Member Merle Gordon.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Cindy Barber, Vice Chair; Michael Doud,
Doris Honsa, Richard Lenard.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Teresa M. Beasley; Chairman; Finance
Director Robert H. Baker; Council President Frank G. Jackson; Councilman Dona Brady;
Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman; Donald
Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond Ossovicki, Chief Electrical
Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman; Earl S. Bumgarner,
Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, Lawrence Skule, Chief Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V.
Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – James D. Gibans, Chair;
Randall B. Shorr, Vice Chair; Kevin Dreyfuss-Wells, India Pierce Lee, Laura M. Noble,
Robert N. Brown, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Council Member Joe Cimperman, Robert
Jackimowicz; Robert Keiser, Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
Judge Emanuella Groves
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
Judge Anita Laster Mays
Judge Lauren C. Moore
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
Judge Angela R. Stokes
Judge Joan Syneberg
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
Judge Joseph J. Zone

Courtroom
14B
15A
13A
14D
13D
14C
12B
13B
15C
12A
12C
14A
13C

Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Michael E. Flanagan – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak – Bailiff;
Regina Daniel – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MAY 18, 2005

Vol. 92

No. 4771

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MAY 16, 2005
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

10:00 A.M.—Aviation & Transportation Committee: Westbrook, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice Chairman; Britt,
Dolan, Gordon, Reed, Rybka.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Reed, Chairman; Britt, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Coats, Conwell,
Jones, Kelley, White, Zone.

Address all communications to

VALARIE J. McCALL
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2002-2005
MONDAY
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Johnson,
Chairman; White, Vice Chairman;
Cimperman, Dolan, Jones, Rybka,
Sweeney.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Sweeney, Chairman; Jones,
Vice Chairman; Brady, Cimperman,
Johnson, Kelley, Polensek, White,
Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee: Lewis, Chairman; Conwell, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Johnson,
Reed, Polensek.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Jackson, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Britt, Cimperman,
Coats, Gordon, Reed, Pierce Scott,
Westbrook, White.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Cimperman, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Jones,
Lewis, Reed, Pierce Scott, Zone.
TUESDAY—Alternating
1:00 P.M. — Health & Human Services Committee: Britt, Chairman;
Zone, Vice Chairman; Cintron, Conwell, Gordon, Pierce Scott, Polensek.
1:30 P.M. — Legislation Committee:
White, Chairman; Pierce Scott, Vice
Chairman; Dolan, Gordon, Johnson,
Rybka, Westbrook.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Coats, Chairman; Brady, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Jones, Kelley,
Polensek, Sweeney, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chairman, Rybka, Vice Chairman, Conwell, Kelley,
Lewis, Pierce Scott, Westbrook.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chairman:
Rules Committee: Jackson, Chairman; Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Pierce Scott.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats,
Chairman;
Cintron,
Reed,
Pierce Scott, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, May 16, 2005
The meeting of the Council was
called
to
order,
The
President,
Frank G. Jackson, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Britt, Cimperman, Cintron, Coats,
Conwell, Gordon, Johnson, Jones,
Kelley, Lewis, Pierce Scott, Polensek, Reed, Rybka, Sweeney, Westbrook, White and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Campbell, Chief of Staff Ronayne, and
Directors Beasley, Baker, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Watson, N. Ronayne,
Rush,
Williams,
Routen,
Huth,
Fumich, Johnson, Appolito, Brown,
Johnson, and Margreat Jackson,
Legislative Liaison.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
prayer was offered by Rabbi Alan
Lettofsky of Beth Israel The West
Temple. Pledge of Allegiance.

COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 986-05.
From The Richard E. Jacobs
Group, Inc. — Independent Auditor
annual report re: Public Square
North Community Urban Redevelopment Corporation, Mall A Community Urban Redevelopment Corporation and Memorial Park Garage
Community Urban Redevelopment
Corporation. Received.
File No. 987-05.
From the Cleveland Theater District Development Corporation —
2004 annual report and year-end
financial summary. Received.
File No. 988-05.
From the Ohio Department of
Transportation re: Cuyahoga County
— City of Cleveland, Project No.
267(05) West 53rd Street, copy of cooperative contract. Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 989-05.
Re: New Application — 7150557 —
RPH & Associates, Inc., d.b.a. Vinea,
1220 Huron Road, first floor with
side. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 990-05.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 1775791 — Couple of
Paisans LLC, d.b.a. Raging Bull
Tavern, first floor and basement,
2071-2075 Broadview Road. (Ward
15). Received.
File No. 991-05.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 7709514 — Santiago Sanchez Entertainment Group LLC, 5004
Storer Avenue. (Ward 14). Received.
File No. 992-05.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 9322955 —
W. 25th Arabic Restaurant, Inc.,
d.b.a. Kanzaman Restaurant, 1917
West 25th Street. (Ward 14). Received.
PLATS

MOTION

File No. 993-05.
Literary Bluffs, Phase 3 — A
Townhouse
Residential
Development. (Ward 13).
Approved by Public Service and
City Planning Committees.

On the motion of Council Member
Gordon, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Rybka.

File No. 994-05.
Replat of the Cloisters — Slavic
Village Subdivision. (Ward 12).
Approved by Committees on Public Service and City Planning.

935

The City Record

4
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res.
Res.
Res.
field.
Res.

No. 995-05—Lela V. Leftridge.
No. 996-05—Eugenia J. Curry.
No. 997-05—Patrick A. WingNo. 998-05—Loretta Parker.

CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 999-05 — Federation of
India Commun Associations.
Res. No. 1000-05 — Sr. Mary Helen
Jaczkowski.
Res. No. 1001-05 — Sr. Joan of Arc
Majkrzak.
Res. No. 1002-05 — Rev. Joseph
Mecir, OSF.
Res. No. 1003-05 — Sr. Laura Bregar.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1004-05—Ottoman Turks.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 940-05.
By Mayor Campbell.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 413.031 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 176-A-05,
passed May 2, 2005, relating to the
use of automated cameras to impose
civil penalties upon red light and
speeding violators.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 413.031 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 176-A-05, passed May 2,
2005, is amended to read as follows:
Section 413.031 Use of Automated
Cameras to Impose Civil Penalties
upon Red Light and Speeding Violators
Civil
enforcement
system
(a)
established. The City of Cleveland
hereby adopts a civil enforcement
system for red light and speeding
offenders photographed by means of
an “automated traffic enforcement
camera system” as defined in division (m). This civil enforcement system imposes monetary liability on
the owner of a vehicle for failure of
an operator to stop at a traffic signal displaying a steady red light
indication or for the failure of an
operator to comply with a speed limitation.
(b) Red light offense – liability
imposed. The owner of a vehicle
shall be liable for the penalty
imposed under this section if the
vehicle crosses a marked stop line
or the intersection plane at a system location when the traffic signal

for that vehicle’s direction is emitting a steady red light.
(c) Speeding offense – liability
imposed. The owner of a vehicle
shall be liable for the penalty
imposed under this section if the
vehicle is operated at a speed in
excess of the limitations set forth in
Section 433.03.
(d) Liability does not constitute a
conviction. The imposition of liability under this section shall not be
deemed a conviction for any purpose
and shall not be made part of the
operating record of any person on
whom the liability is imposed.
(e) Other offenses and penalties
not abrogated. Nothing in this section shall be construed as altering
or limiting Sections 433.03 or 413.03
of these Codified Ordinances, the
criminal penalties imposed by those
sections, or the ability of a police
officer to enforce those sections
against any offender observed by
the officer violating either of those
sections. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to limit the liability of an operator of a vehicle for
any violation of division (b) or (c)
of this section.
(f) Selection of camera sites.
(1) The selection of the sites
where
automated
cameras
are
placed and the enforcement of this
ordinance shall be made on the
basis of sound professional traffic
engineering and law enforcement
judgments.
(2) The Director of Public Safety
shall select the camera sites in the
interests of public safety and welfare based upon the principles established in this section.
(3) Automated cameras shall not
be placed at any site where the
speed restrictions or the timing of
the traffic signal fail to conform to
sound professional traffic engineering principles.
(4) The review of possible sites
shall include a field survey by the
Commissioner of Traffic Engineering to insure that its speed restriction and its traffic signs and signals
currently conform to sound traffic
engineering principles. If the site
does not so conform, the Traffic
Engineer shall cause it to be corrected before further consideration
is given to that site.
(5) The Director shall include in
the review of each site consideration
of each of the following:
A. The number of citations issued
for red light or speed offenses at the
proposed site;
B. The number of traffic accidents
and collisions that have occurred at
the site;
C. The number of such accidents
or collisions that resulted in bodily
injuries and deaths.
(6) The Director shall further
regard pedestrian safety as of paramount concern and shall, through
the selection process, attempt to
identify sites where introducing
automated cameras are likely to
reduce the incidence of pedestrian
injuries caused by motorists speeding or crashing red lights.
(7) The Director shall not propose
a site or cause it to be announced
in the City Record without first consulting with the appropriate council
members, the Director of Public Service, the Police Traffic Commis-

936

May 18, 2005
sioner, and the Commissioner of
Traffic Engineering.
of
the
sites
(g) Publication
selected.
The Director of Public Safety
shall cause notice to be published in
the City Record of each site where
a red light camera or fixed speed
camera will be placed. The camera
system may placed at a given site
fourteen days after publication of
notice in the City Record, unless
this Council passes an ordinance or
resolution in opposition to the site
in that fourteen-day period, or until
the next regularly scheduled meeting of Council, whichever occurs
later.
The Director of Public Safety
shall cause the general public to be
notified by means of a press release
issued at least thirty days before
any given camera is made fullyoperational and is used to issue tickets to offenders. Before a given camera issues actual tickets, there shall
be a period of at least two weeks,
which may run concurrently with
the 30-day public-notice period, during which only “warning” notices
shall be issued.
At each site of a red light or fixed
speed camera, the Director of Public Service shall cause signs to be
posted to apprise ordinarily observant
motorists
that
they
are
approaching an area where an automated camera is monitoring for red
light or speed violators. Mobile
speed units shall be plainly marked
vehicles.
(h) Notices of liability. Any ticket
for an automated red light or speeding system violation under this section shall:
(1) Be reviewed by a Cleveland
police officer;
(2) Be forwarded by first-class
mail or personal service to the vehicle’s registered owner’s address as
given on the state’s motor vehicle
registration, and
(3) Clearly state the manner in
which the violation may be appealed.
(i) Penalties. Any violation of
division (b) or division (c) of this
section shall be deemed a noncriminal violation for which a civil penalty shall be assessed and for which
no points authorized by Section
4507.021 of the Revised Code (“Point
system
for
license
suspension”)
shall be assigned to the owner or
driver of the vehicle.
(j) Ticket evaluation, public service, and appeals. The program
shall include a fair and sound ticket-evaluation process that includes
review by the vendor and a police
officer, a strong customer-service
commitment, and an appeals process
that accords due process to the ticket respondent and that conforms to
the requirements of the Ohio Revised Code.
(k) Appeals. A notice of appeal
shall be filed with the Hearing Officer within twenty-one (21) days
from the date listed on the ticket.
The failure to give notice of appeal
or pay the civil penalty within this
time period shall constitute a waiver
of the right to contest the ticket and
shall be considered an admission.
Appeals shall be heard by the
Parking Violations Bureau through
an administrative process established by the Clerk of the Cleveland
Municipal Court. At hearings, the
strict rules of evidence applicable to

May 18, 2005
courts of law shall not apply. The
contents of the ticket shall constitute a prima facie evidence of the
facts it contains. Liability may be
found by the hearing examiner
based upon a preponderance of the
evidence. If a finding of liability is
appealed, the record of the case
shall include the order of the Parking Violations Bureau, the Ticket,
other evidence submitted by the
respondent or the City of Cleveland,
and a transcript or record of the
hearing, in a written or electronic
form acceptable to the court to
which the case is appealed.
Liability shall not be found where
the evidence shows that the automated camera captured an event is
not an offense, including each of the
following events and such others as
may be established by rules and regulations issued by the Director of
Public Safety under the authority of
division (n) of this section:
1) The motorist stops in time to
avoid violating a red light indication;
2) The motorist proceeds through
a red light indication as part of
funeral procession;
3) The motorist is operating a
City-owned emergency vehicle with
its emergency lights activated and
proceeds through a red light indication or exceeds the posted speed limitation;
4) The motorist is directed by a
police officer on the scene contrary
to the traffic signal indication.
Liability shall also be excused if
a vehicle is observed committing an
offense
where
the
vehicle
was
stolen prior to the offense and the
owner has filed a police report;
The Director of Public Safety, in
coordination with the Parking Violations Bureau, shall establish a
process by which a vehicle owner
who was not the driver at the time
of the alleged offense may, by affidavit, name the person who the
owner believes was driving the vehicle at the time. Upon receipt of such
an affidavit timely submitted to the
Parking
Violations
Bureau,
the
Bureau shall suspend further action
against the owner of the vehicle and
instead direct notices and collection
efforts to the person identified in
the affidavit. If the person named in
the affidavit, when notified, denies
being the driver or denies liability,
then the Parking Violations Bureau
shall resume the notice and collection process against the vehicle
owner, the same as if no affidavit
had been submitted, and if the violation is found to have been committed by a preponderance of evidence, the owner shall be liable for
any
penalties
imposed
for
the
offense.
A decision in favor of the City of
Cleveland
may
be
enforced
by
means of a civil action or any other
means provided by the Revised
Code.
(l) Evidence of ownership. It is
prima facie evidence that the person
registered as the owner of the vehicle with the Ohio Bureau of Motor
Vehicles, or with any other State
vehicle registration office, was operating the vehicle at the time of the
offenses set out in divisions (b) and
(c) of this section.
Program
oversight.
The
(m)
Director of Public Safety shall oversee the program authorized by this

The City Record

5

Section. The selection of the locations of red light and fixed speed
cameras shall be made by the Director of Public Safety as specified in
divisions (f) and (g) in consultation
with the appropriate council members, the Director of Public Service,
the Police Traffic Commissioner,
and the Commissioner of Traffic
Engineering. The Director of Public
Service shall oversee the installation and maintenance of all automated cameras. An encroachment
permit shall not be required for the
placement of automated red light or
fixed speed cameras.
(n) Rules and Regulations. The
Director of Public Safety may issue
rules and regulations to carry out
the provisions of these sections,
which shall be effective thirty (30)
days after publication in the City
Record.
(o) Establishment of Penalty. The
penalty imposed for a violation of
division (b) or (c) of this section
shall be follows:

413.031(b)
All violations

$100.00

413.031(c)
Up to 24 mph over the
speed limit
25 mph or more over
the speed limit
Any violation of a school
or construction zone
speed limit

$100.00
$200.00
$200.00

Late penalties
For both offenses, if the penalty
is not paid within 20 days from the
date of mailing of the ticket to the
offender, an additional $20.00 shall
be imposed, and if not paid with 40
days from that date, another $40.00
shall be imposed, for a total additional penalty in such a case of
$60.00.
(p) Definitions. As used in this
section:
(1) “Automated traffic enforcement camera system” means an electronic system consisting of a photographic, video, or electronic camera
and a vehicle sensor installed to
work alone or in conjunction with
an official traffic controller and to
automatically produce photographs,
video, or digital images of each
vehicle violating divisions (b) or
(c).
(2) “System location” is the approach to an intersection or a street
toward which a photographic, video
or electronic camera is directed and
is in operation. It is the location
where the automated camera system
is installed to monitor offenses
under this section.
(3) “Vehicle owner” is the person
or entity identified by the Ohio
Bureau of Motor Vehicles, or registered with any other State vehicle
registration office, as the registered
owner of a vehicle.
Section 2. That existing Section
413.031 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 176-A-05, passed May
2, 2005, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

937

shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety,
Public
Service,
Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Safety,
Public Service, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 941-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to
accept a gift of onsite data gathering and an analysis from Advizex
Technologies, for the Department of
Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to accept on
behalf of the City of Cleveland, a
gift to provide an assessment and
analysis of the of the City’s current
data storage environment to aid
with developing the citywide information technology strategic plan
storage
requirements,
valued
at
$25,000, from Advizek Technologies.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 942-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to
accept a gift of a high capacity
wireless link from Winncom Technologies Corporation, for the Department of Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to accept on
behalf of the City of Cleveland, a
gift of a high capacity wireless link
to connect at least one safety district to the City’s existing INET
fiber optic network, including maintenance and support while the Division of Information Technology and
Services and the Department of Public Safety tests the link’s performance, valued at $30,000, from Winncom Technologies Corporation.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

6
Ord. No. 943-05.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing
for the issuance and sale of Taxable
Urban Renewal Temporary Refunding Bonds in the principal amount
not to exceed $4,375,000 for the purpose of (1) refunding outstanding
Taxable
Urban
Renewal
Notes,
Series 2003 which were issued to
refund outstanding Taxable Urban
Revenue Notes, Series 2002 issued for
the purpose of acquiring property for
Urban Renewal Project Activities
and (2) paying certain costs of issuance of said Refunding Bonds; and
authorizing related matters.
Whereas, under Article VIII, Section 13 of the Ohio Constitution and
Chapter 725 of the Ohio Revised
Code (the “Act”), the City has the
power to undertake and carry out
urban renewal projects pursuant to
urban renewal plans approved by
the City from time to time, and the
City has undertaken and carried out
and intends to undertake and carry
out urban renewal activities for the
elimination of blight and for the
prevention of the development and
spread of blight and deterioration
within its designated urban renewal areas; and
Whereas, the City has undertaken
a program for the clearance and
reconstruction
of
blighted
areas
within its boundaries and, in connection therewith, is engaged in carrying out the following development
projects: (a) the Erieview II Neighborhood Development Plan No. Ohio
A-8 (the “Erieview II Development
Plan”) in an area bounded generally on the north by Lakeside Avenue,
on the east by East 17th Street, on
the south by Superior Avenue, and
on the west by East 12th Street (the
“Erieview II Plan Area”) and (b)
the Erieview I Renewal Project No.
Ohio R-36 (the “Erieview I Development Plan”) in an area bounded
generally on the north by Lakeside
Avenue, on the east by East 14th
Street on the south by Chester
Avenue and on the west by East 6th
Street (the “Erieview I Plan Area”),
which Erieview I Development Plan
and Erieview II Development Plan
(together the “Development Plans”)
remain in force and effect; and
Whereas, the Council of the City,
by Ordinance Nos. 1634-73 and 242860, passed on April 8, 1974, and
December 12, 1960, respectively, as
amended from time to time, designated the Erieview II Plan Area and
the Erieview I Plan Area (collectively, the “Plan Areas”) as blighted areas and encouraged the redevelopment of certain parcels within
the Plan Area in accordance with
the requirements of the Development Plans in order to prevent the
recurrence or spread of conditions of
blight; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1108-87, passed June 8, 1987, as
amended by Ordinance No. 3012-88,
passed February 6, 1989, and Ordinance No. 1374-91, passed June 17,
1991, and Ordinance No. 1713-91,
passed August 21, 1991, the Director
of Community Development entered
into
certain
agreements
(the
“Agreements”) with Jacobs, Visconsi & Jacobs Co. and its assignees
(the “Redeveloper”), relating to the

The City Record
redevelopment of certain real property in the Plan Areas; and
Whereas,
the
Agreements,
as
amended, provide that in the event
of a default under the Agreements,
the City is entitled to repurchase
Parcels 22-A-2, 9-B, and the additional properties (collectively, the
“Properties”), as defined in and pursuant to the terms and conditions
set forth in the Agreements; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 168-A-01, passed August 15, 2001,
the City: (1) exercised its rights to
repurchase
the
above-referenced
Properties as provided in the Agreements and purchased the Properties;
and (2) pursuant to Article VIII, Section 13 of the Ohio Constitution and
the Act, and particularly Section
725.05(C) of the Revised Code, the
City issued Urban Renewal Temporary Bonds captioned $4,200,000 City
of Cleveland, Ohio Taxable Urban
Renewal Notes, Series 2001 (the
“Prior Bonds”), dated November 1,
2001 and maturing on November 1,
2002, in the principal amount of
$4,200,000 for the purpose of paying
costs of carrying out urban renewal
project activities in the Plan Areas
in accordance with the Development
Plans and the Act, including without
limitation, direct and indirect costs
of acquiring the Properties, preparing the Properties for redevelopment,
title, appraisal, planning, engineering and legal costs related thereto,
and paying Financing Costs (as
defined below) related to issuing the
Prior Bonds (the “Project”); and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1709-02 dated September 16, 2002
the City issued its $4,250,000 Taxable
Urban
Renewal
Refunding
Notes, Series 2002 (“Prior Bonds
Series 2002”) to currently refund all
of the Prior Bonds; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1181-03 dated July 16, 2003 the
City issued its $4,300,000 Taxable
Urban Renewal Refunding Notes,
Series 2003 (“Prior Bonds Series
2003”) to currently refund the Prior
Bonds Series 2002; and
Whereas, the City now has determined to issue Temporary Bonds to
refund the Prior Bonds Series 2003
and to pay Financing Costs; and
Whereas, it is necessary to issue
the Urban Renewal Temporary Refunding
Bonds
(the
“Temporary
Bonds”) herein authorized and to do
so as soon as possible in order to
timely retire the Prior Bonds Series
2003 and to take advantage of current market interest rates, thereby
preserving the credit of the City and
reducing debt service payable by
the City, and, as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes
an
emergency
measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public property, health, and safety and for the
usual and daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition
to the words and terms elsewhere
defined in this Ordinance including
its preambles, unless the context or
use clearly indicates another or different meaning or intent:
“Book entry form” or “Book entry
system” means a form or system

938

May 18, 2005
under which (a) the ownership of
book entry interests in the Temporary Bonds and the principal of and
interest on the Temporary Bonds
may be transferred only through a
book entry, and (b) physical Bond
certificates in fully registered form
are issued only to a Depository or
its nominee as registered owner,
with the physical Bond certificates
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository or its agent. The book
entry system is maintained by and
is the responsibility of the Depository and not the City or the Bond
Registrar. The book entry is the
record that identifies, and records
the transfer of the interests of, the
owners of beneficial (book entry)
interests in the Temporary Bonds.
“Certificate of Award” means the
certificate authorized by Section 3,
to be executed by the Director of
Finance, setting forth and determining those terms or other matters
pertaining to the Temporary Bonds
and their amount, issuance, sale and
delivery as this Ordinance requires
or authorizes to be set forth or
determined in it.
“Continuing
Disclosure
Certificate” means the certificate authorized by Section 12 which, together
with the agreements of the City set
forth in that Section, shall constitute
the continuing disclosure agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
holders and beneficial owners of the
Temporary Bonds in accordance
with the Rule.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
a letter of credit, an insurance policy, or other credit enhancement or
liquidity device provided to enhance
the security or liquidity of the Temporary Bonds.
“Debt Retirement Fund” means
the Urban Renewal Debt Retirement
Fund established pursuant to Section 10.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of book entry
interests in Temporary Bonds or the
principal of and interest on the Temporary Bonds, and to effect transfers of Temporary Bonds, in book
entry form, and includes and means
initially The Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New York, New York.
“Financial Advisor” means either
or both of Government Capital Management, LLC and Columbia Equity
Financial Corp.
“Financing Costs” has the meaning provided in Section 133.01 of the
Revised Code.
“Nontax Revenues” means all moneys of the City which are not moneys raised by taxation, to the extent
available for the purpose of paying
debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds, including, but not limited to
the following: (a) grants from the
United States of America and the
State; (b) payments in lieu of taxes
now or hereafter authorized by State
statute; (c) fines and forfeitures
which are deposited in the City’s
General Fund; (d) fees deposited in
the City’s General Fund for services
provided and from properly imposed
licenses and permits; (e) investment
earnings
on
the
City’s
General

May 18, 2005
Fund; (f) investment earnings on
other funds of the City that are
credited to the City’s General Fund;
(g) proceeds from the sale of assets
which are deposited in the City’s
General Fund; (h) gifts and donations; and (i) all rental payments
which are deposited in the City’s
General Fund.
“Original Purchaser” means the
original purchasers of the Temporary Bonds: SBK-Brooks Investment
Corp., and A.G. Edwards.
“Proceedings” means collectively,
this Ordinance, the Certificate of
Award, the Continuing Disclosure
Certificate and such other proceedings of the City, including the Temporary Bonds, that provide collectively for, among other things, the
rights of holders and beneficial owners of the Temporary Bonds.
“Revenues” means, to the extent
not otherwise pledged for the repayment of the City’s Parking Facilities
Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series
1996, and to the extent available to
pay debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds, any rentals received under
leases made by the City with
respect to the Project properties, all
proceeds from the sale or other disposition of the Project properties
and any urban renewal service payments collected from any of the Project properties.
“Rule” means SEC Rule 15c2-12.
“State” means the State of Ohio.
“Temporary Bonds” means the
Temporary Bonds authorized by this
Ordinance.
Unless otherwise indicated, any
reference to a Section is a reference
to a Section of this Ordinance.
Section 2. Authorized Principal
Amount and Purpose. This Council
determines that (i) the Project is
consistent with the purposes of Section 13 of Article VIII of the Ohio
Constitution; (ii) the Project is in
furtherance of the purposes of the
Act and will benefit the people of
the City and of the State by creating and preserving jobs and employment opportunities and improving
the economic welfare of the people
of the City and of the State; and
(iii) it is necessary for the City to
issue the Temporary Bonds pursuant
to Section 13 of Article VIII of the
Ohio
Constitution
and
Sections
725.05(C) and 725.07 of the Act in
the principal amount not to exceed
$4,375,000 to retire the Prior Bonds
Series 2003 which were originally
issued to retire the Prior Bonds
Series 2002 and to pay costs of the
Project.
Section 3. Terms of Temporary
Bonds. The Temporary Bonds shall
be dated the date of issuance or
such other date as is designated in
the Certificate of Award but not
later than October 30, 2005. The
Temporary Bonds shall mature on a
date to be determined by the Director of Finance in the Certificate of
Award in accordance with the Director of Finance’s determination of the
best interest of and financial advantages to the City, provided that such
date shall not be later than five
years from the date of issuance of
the Temporary Bonds. The Temporary Bonds shall bear interest from
their date at the rate or rates per

The City Record
annum set forth in the Certificate of
Award, or if any Temporary Bonds
bear interest at a variable rate, at
the rate determined pursuant to the
method set forth in the Certificate
of Award. Interest on the Temporary Bonds shall be payable on the
dates determined by the Director of
Finance in the Certificate of Award
and until the principal amount is
paid or payment is provided for. If
any Temporary Bonds bear interest
at a fixed rate or rates, those rates
shall not exceed eight percent (8%)
per year (computed on the basis of
a 360-day year consisting of twelve
30-day months) and interest shall be
payable not more often than every
six months and at maturity or at
any earlier redemption date. If any
Temporary Bonds bear interest at a
variable rate or rates, those rates
shall not exceed that set forth
below, and interest shall be payable
not more often than once a month
and following purchase and at maturity or at any earlier redemption
date.
In the event that the Director of
Finance based on the written advice
of the Financial Advisor determines
that the City’s best interests will be
served by causing all or a portion
of the Temporary Bonds to be obligations bearing interest at variable
rates, redeemable by the City without penalty or premium on interest
adjustment dates, then the Director
of Finance is authorized to so specify in the Certificate of Award. If
the Director of Finance so determines, then the Director of Finance
shall specify in the Certificate of
Award the method and procedure by
which the variable rate of interest
to be borne by the variable rate
Temporary Bonds shall be determined, whether by reference to a
market index, by a remarketing
agent or otherwise; provided that
the variable rate Temporary Bonds
shall not bear interest at a rate in
excess of sixteen percent (16%) per
annum; provided further that the
maximum interest rate for variable
rate Temporary Bonds during any
period those Temporary Bonds are
held by a provider of a Credit Support Instrument because they could
not be remarketed shall be twentyfive percent (25%). Holders of variable rate Temporary Bonds may be
given the right to tender their variable rate Temporary Bonds for purchase by the City at the times, on
the terms, and subject to the conditions set forth in the Certificate of
Award and any tender agreement;
provided that tender rights shall be
exercisable only at such times as a
Credit Support Instrument is in
place that provides for the payment
of the purchase price payable to the
tendering holder of a variable rate
Temporary Bond. If the Director of
Finance designates any Temporary
Bonds as variable rate Temporary
Bonds, and if the holders of the variable rate Temporary Bonds are to be
entitled to tender the variable rate
Temporary Bonds for purchase, then
the Director of Finance shall also
designate
in
the
Certificate
of
Award for those variable rate Temporary
Bonds
the
provider
or
providers for any Credit Support
Instrument, the tender agent or
agents and the remarketing agent

939

7
or agents, which designations shall
be based on the determination of the
Director of Finance that the parties
so designated possess the requisite
resources and experience to provide
the services required of them and
that the terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide
such services are fair and commercially reasonable. The Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements in connection with the
delivery of the variable rate Temporary Bonds, and from time to time
thereafter so long as the variable
rate Temporary Bonds are outstanding with providers of Credit Support
Instruments, tender agents (which
may be the Registrar), remarketing
agents (which may be the Original
Purchaser), and others as may be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be necessary or appropriate to provide for the method of
determining the variable interest
rates permitting holders the right of
tender, providing for liquidity or
credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Temporary Bonds
upon tender for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment by the City of any amounts
drawn under the Credit Support
Instrument.
The Director of Finance, in connection with the original issuance of
the
Temporary
Bonds,
and
regardless of the Temporary Bonds
bearing interest at variable or fixed
rates, is authorized to contract for a
Credit Support Instrument and to
pay the costs of it from proceeds of
the Temporary Bonds, if the Director of Finance based on the written
advice of the Financial Advisor
determines that the Credit Support
Instrument will result in a savings
in the cost of this financing to the
City.
Section
4.
Payment
of
Debt
Charges on the Temporary Bonds.
The debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds shall be payable in lawful
money of the United States of America, or in Federal Reserve funds of
the United States of America as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance in the Certificate of Award,
and shall be payable, without deduction for the services of the Registrar as the City’s paying agent. If
agreed to by the Original Purchaser, the Temporary Bonds shall be
subject to redemption without penalty or premium at the option of the
City in whole or in part at any time
prior to maturity as provided in this
Ordinance and the Certificate of
Award.
If fewer than all of the Temporary Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Temporary Bonds of that maturity
to be redeemed, or portions thereof
in amounts of the minimum authorized denomination (as set forth in
Section 8 hereof) or any integral
multiple thereof, shall be made by
lot in a manner determined by the
Registrar. In the case of a partial
redemption of Temporary Bonds by
lot
when
Temporary
Bonds
of
denominations greater than the minimum authorized denomination are
then outstanding, each unit of principal thereof in the amount of the
minimum authorized denomination

8
shall be treated as if it were a separate Temporary Bond of the denomination of the minimum authorized
denomination. If it is determined
that one or more, but not all, of the
units of principal amount in the
amount of the minimum authorized
denomination represented by a Temporary Bonds are to be called for
redemption, then, upon notice of
redemption of such unit or units, the
registered owner of that Temporary
Bond shall surrender the Temporary
Bond to the Registrar (i) for payment of the redemption price of such
unit or units of principal amount
called for redemption (including,
without
limitation,
the
interest
accrued
to
the
date
fixed
for
redemption), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner, of a new Temporary Bond or
Temporary Bonds of any authorized
denomination or denominations in
an
aggregate
principal
amount
equal to the unmatured and unredeemed portion of, and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date as, the Temporary Bond surrendered.
The notice of the call for redemption of Temporary Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers, or other distinguishing marks,
the Temporary Bonds or portions
thereof to be redeemed, (ii) the
redemption price to be paid, (iii) the
date fixed for redemption, and (iv)
the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least 30
days prior to the date fixed for
redemption, to the registered owner
of each Temporary Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Register (as defined
in Section 5) maintained by the Registrar at the close of business on the
15th day preceding that mailing.
Failure to receive notice by mail or
any defect in that notice regarding
any Temporary Bond, however, shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any
Temporary Bond.
In the event that notice of redemption shall have been given by the
Registrar to the registered owners
as provided above, there shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date, moneys that, in addition to any other
moneys available therefor and held
by the Registrar, will be sufficient
to redeem at the redemption price
thereof, plus accrued interest to the
redemption
date,
all
of
the
redeemable Temporary Bonds for
which notice of redemption has been
given. Notice having been mailed in
the manner provided in the preceding paragraph hereof, the Temporary Bonds and portions thereof
called for redemption shall become
due and payable on the redemption
date, and, upon presentation and
surrender thereof at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid at the redemption price, plus
accrued interest to the redemption
date. If moneys for the redemption
of all of the Temporary Bonds and
portions thereof to be redeemed,

The City Record
together with accrued interest thereon to the redemption date, are held
by the Registrar on the redemption
date, so as to be available therefor
on that date and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail as aforesaid, then from and
after the redemption date those
Bonds and portions thereof called
for redemption shall cease to bear
interest and no longer shall be considered to be outstanding. If those
moneys shall not be so available on
the redemption date, or that notice
shall not have been deposited in the
mail as aforesaid, those Temporary
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All moneys
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Temporary
Bonds shall be held in trust for the
account of the registered owners
thereof and shall be paid to them,
respectively, upon presentation and
surrender
of
those
Temporary
Bonds.
Section 5. Registrar. The Director
of Finance shall designate a bank
or trust company to act as the
authenticating
agent,
registrar,
transfer agent and paying agent for
the Temporary Bonds after determining that the payment at that
bank or trust company will not
endanger the funds or securities of
the City and that proper procedures
and safeguards are available for
that purpose (the “Registrar”). The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, a registrar agreement or
agreements between the City and
the Registrar (the “Registrar Agreement”) substantially in the form
contained in File No. 943-05-A, with
such changes as approved by the
Director of Law. In the event that a
trust agreement secures the Temporary Bonds, as provided in Section
10, the Registrar Agreement may be
incorporated in such trust agreement. The Director of Finance shall
provide for the payment of the services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant
to the Registrar Agreement from the
proceeds of the Temporary Bonds to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose.
The Temporary Bonds shall be
issued only as fully registered Temporary Bonds. Principal on the Temporary Bonds shall be payable when
due upon presentation and surrender
of the Temporary Bonds at the designated office of the Registrar designated in the Registrar Agreement.
Interest on each Temporary Bond
shall be paid on each interest payment date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Temporary Bond was registered,
and to that person’s address appearing on the Register (defined below
in this Section) at the close of business on the 15th day of the calendar month next preceding that interest payment date or such other date
established in the Certificate of
Award if variable rate Temporary
Bonds are issued. The City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and

940

May 18, 2005
keep all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange,
and transfer of Temporary Bonds as
provided in this Section (the “Register”) so long as any of the Temporary Bonds remain outstanding.
Subject to the provisions of this Section, the person in whose name a
Temporary Bond is registered on the
Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Temporary
Bond for all purposes of the Proceedings (except as may otherwise
be required with respect to the
City’s continuing disclosure agreement pursuant to the Rule). Payment of or on account of the debt
charges on any Temporary Bond
shall be made only to or upon the
order of that person; neither the
City nor the Registrar shall be
affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Temporary Bond, including interest,
to the extent of the amount or
amounts so paid.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
and so long as the Temporary Bonds
are issued in a book entry system,
principal of and interest on the
Temporary Bonds shall be payable
in the manner provided in any
agreement entered into by the Director of Finance, in the name and on
behalf of the City, in connection
with the book entry system.
Section 6. Transfer and Exchange
of Certain Temporary Bonds. Temporary Bonds may be exchanged for
Temporary Bonds of any authorized
denomination upon presentation and
surrender at the office designated
by the Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person
legally empowered to do so in a
form satisfactory to the Registrar. A
Temporary Bond may be transferred
only on the Register, upon presentation and surrender of the Temporary Bond at the office designated
by the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer, the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate, and
deliver a new Temporary Bond or
Temporary Bonds, of any authorized
denomination or authorized denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Temporary Bond surrendered and bearing interest at the same rate and
maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Temporary Bonds only
after the new Temporary Bonds are
signed by the authorized officers of
the City. In all cases of Temporary
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Temporary Bonds in accordance with the
provisions of the Proceedings. The
exchange or transfer shall be without charge to the owner, except that
the City and Registrar may make a
charge sufficient to reimburse them

May 18, 2005
for any tax or other governmental
charge required to be paid with
respect to the exchange or transfer.
The City or the Registrar may
require that those charges, if any,
be paid before the procedure is
begun for the exchange or transfer.
All Temporary Bonds issued and
authenticated upon any exchange or
transfer shall be valid special obligations of the City, evidencing the
same obligation, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under the
proceedings,
as
the
Temporary
Bonds
surrendered
upon
that
exchange or transfer. Neither the
City nor the Registrar shall be
required to make any exchange or
transfer of a Temporary Bond during the period beginning at the
opening of business 15 days before
the day of the mailing of a notice
of redemption of Temporary Bonds
and ending at the close of business
on the day of such mailing or to
transfer or exchange any Temporary Bond selected for redemption in
whole or in part.
Section 7. Book Entry. Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this Ordinance, if it is determined
by the Director of Finance to be in
the best interest of and financially
advantageous to the City, the Temporary Bonds may be issued in book
entry form in accordance with the
provisions of this Section.
The Temporary Bonds may be
issued to a Depository for use in a
book entry system and, if and as
long as a book entry system is utilized, (i) the Temporary Bonds may
be issued in the form of a single,
fully registered Temporary Bond
representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, as registered
owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository; (ii) the book
entry interest owners of Temporary
Bonds in book entry form shall have
no
right
to
receive
Temporary
Bonds in the form of physical securities or certificates; (iii) ownership
of book entry interests in book
entry form shall be shown by book
entry on the system maintained and
operated by the Depository and its
participants, and transfers of the
ownership of book entry interests
shall be made only by book entry
by the Depository and its Participants;
and
(iv)
the
Temporary
Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Temporary Bonds for use in
a book entry system, the Director of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Director of Finance, after
making provision for notification of
the book entry interest owners by
the then Depository and any other
arrangements
deemed
necessary,
shall permit withdrawal of the Temporary Bonds from the Depository,
and authenticate and deliver certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nom-

The City Record
inee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance also is
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the Temporary Bonds, after determining
that the signing thereof will not
endanger the funds or securities of
the City and after the approval of
the form of any such agreement by
the Director of Law.
Section 8. Execution of Temporary
Bonds. Temporary Bonds shall be
signed by the Mayor and the Director of Finance, in the name of the
City and in their official capacities,
provided that either or both of those
signatures may be a facsimile, and
shall bear the seal of the City or a
facsimile thereof; provided that no
Temporary Bond shall be valid or
obligatory for any purpose or shall
be entitled to any security or benefit under the Proceedings unless and
until the certificate of authentication printed on the Temporary Bond
is signed by the Registrar as
authenticating agent, and authentication by the Registrar shall be conclusive evidence that the Temporary
Bond so authenticated has been duly
issued, signed and delivered under
and is entitled to the security and
benefit of the Proceedings. The certificate of authentication may be
signed by any authorized officer or
employee of the Registrar or by any
other person acting as an agent of
the Registrar and approved by the
Director of Finance on behalf of the
City. The same person need not sign
the certificate of authentication on
all of the Temporary Bonds.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the
City’s Charter, the Director of Law
shall prepare the Temporary Bonds
and
shall
endorse
thereon
her
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by her manual or facsimile
signature. The Temporary Bonds
shall be issued in the denominations
as requested by the Original Purchaser and approved by the Director
of Finance, in conformity with this
Ordinance.
The
entire
principal
amount may be represented by a single bond certificate and may be
issued as fully registered securities
and in book entry or other uncertificated form if it is determined by
the
Director
of
Finance
that
issuance of fully registered securities in that form will facilitate the
sale and delivery of the Temporary
Bonds. The Temporary Bonds may
be issued in the authorized denominations of either (a) $100,000 each
or in any denomination that is the
sum of (i) $100,000 and (ii) $5,000 or
any integral multiple thereof, and
not exchangeable for other Temporary Bonds in denominations less
than $100,000, or (b) $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, as determined by the Director of Finance in
the Certificate of Award to be in the
best interest of the City. The Temporary Bonds shall not have coupons
attached, shall be numbered as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance and shall express upon

941

9
their faces the purpose, in summary
terms, for which they are issued and
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 9. Sale of Temporary
Bonds. The Temporary Bonds shall
be sold at not less than 97% of par
plus accrued interest at private sale
by the Director of Finance to the
Original Purchaser in accordance
with law and the provisions of this
Ordinance. If, in the reasonable
opinion of the Director of Finance,
an underwriter is incapable of fully
performing its duties or meeting its
obligations in its capacity as Original Purchaser with respect to the
Temporary Bonds, the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized and
directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever action may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser. The Director
of Finance shall sign the Certificate
of Award referred to in this Ordinance, evidencing the sale to the
Original Purchaser, cause the Temporary Bonds to be prepared, and
have the Temporary Bonds signed
and delivered, together with a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Temporary Bonds if requested by the
Original Purchaser, to the Original
Purchaser upon payment of the purchase price. The Director of Finance
is authorized to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
a bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser, or representative thereof (the
“Purchase Agreement”), in substantially the form contained in the file
referenced above with such changes
therein not inconsistent with the
terms of this Ordinance and not substantially adverse to the City as
approved by the Director of Finance
and Director of Law, such approval
to be conclusively evidenced by the
execution of the Purchase Agreement by such officers. The Director
of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and
for
reimbursement
of
expenses
incurred pursuant to the Purchase
Agreement from the proceeds of the
Temporary Bonds to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or as may be appropriated for that purpose. The Mayor, the
Director of Finance, the Clerk of
Council, the Director of Law, and
other City officials, as appropriate,
are each authorized and directed to
sign
any
transcript
certificates,
financial statements and other documents and instruments and to take
such actions as are necessary or
appropriate
to
consummate
the
transactions contemplated by this
Ordinance.
Section 10. Security for the Temporary Bonds. The Temporary Bonds
shall be special obligations of the
City, and the debt charges on the
Temporary Bonds shall be payable
solely from the Revenues and the
Nontax Revenues. The Payment of
debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds is secured by a pledge of and
lien on (i) the Revenues and (ii) the
Nontax Revenues which are on
deposit in the Urban Renewal Debt

10
Retirement Fund created below. The
Temporary Bonds are not and shall
not be secured by an obligation or
pledge of any money raised by taxation. The Temporary Bonds do not
and shall not represent or constitute
a debt or pledge of the faith and
credit or taxing power of the City,
and the owners thereof have and
shall have no right to have taxes
levied by the City for the payment
of debt charges thereon. The Temporary Bonds shall contain a statement to that effect and to the effect
that
the
Temporary
Bonds
are
payable solely from the Revenues
and the Nontax Revenues and are
not secured by an obligation or
pledge of any money raised by taxation.
The City covenants and agrees
that while the Temporary Bonds are
outstanding, it will appropriate and
maintain Nontax Revenues at such
times and in such amounts as will
be sufficient, together with the Revenues and any other funds available
or to be available for the purpose
(including proceeds of refunding
obligations),
to
pay
the
debt
charges on the Temporary Bonds
and will so restrict other obligations
payable from Nontax Revenues prior
to or on a parity with the Temporary Bonds as will ensure the continuing availability for appropriation of sufficient Nontax Revenues
to pay debt charges when due,
which Nontax Revenues are hereby
selected by the City pursuant to Section 725.05(C) 725.07 of the Revised
Code as moneys that are not raised
by taxation.
There is hereby created by the
City a separate fund or account designated as the “Urban Renewal Debt
Retirement Fund” (the “Debt Retirement Fund”) into which shall be
deposited (i) the Revenues upon
receipt, and (ii) other Nontax Revenues, and any other funds available for the purpose, on or prior to
the date debt charges on the Temporary Bonds are due, in an amount
sufficient to pay those debt charges.
Any Revenues remaining after payment or provision for payment, of
all debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds shall be deposited to the
extent not otherwise pledged or
encumbered in the Housing Trust
Fund (Fund No. 14 SF 027).
Nothing herein shall be construed
as requiring the City to use or apply
to the payment of debt charges on
the Temporary Bonds any funds or
revenues from any source other than
the Revenues and the Nontax Revenues.
Nothing
herein,
however,
shall be deemed to prohibit the City,
of its own volition, from using, to
the extent that it is authorized by
law to do so, any other resources for
the fulfillment of any of the terms,
conditions or obligations of this
Ordinance or of the Temporary
Bonds.
The City will, solely from the proceeds of the Temporary Bonds or
from the Revenues or the Nontax
Revenues, pay or cause to be paid
the debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds on the dates, at the places
and in the manner provided herein
and in the Temporary Bonds. For
that purpose, in each year while the
Temporary Bonds are outstanding,
this Council, after providing for the

The City Record
payment of debt charges payable on
the City’s general obligation securities in that year from sources available for that purpose, will appropriate Nontax Revenues required to
pay, and for the purpose of paying
the debt charges due in that year on
the Temporary Bonds and any outstanding parity obligations payable
from Nontax Revenues. Further, this
Council will give effect to such
appropriations in all ordinances it
passes thereafter in that year appropriating money for expenditure and
encumbrance and limit the other
appropriations of Nontax Revenues
in that year to the amount available
after deducting the amount required
for the payment of debt charges
payable on the City’s general obligation securities and to pay those
debt charges. The City covenants
that, so long as any of the Temporary Bonds are outstanding, it shall
not issue any additional obligations
payable from the Nontax Revenues
on a parity with the Temporary
Bonds and any outstanding parity
obligations payable from Nontax
Revenues, unless, prior to passage
of the ordinance authorizing such
parity obligations, the Director of
Finance shall have certified to this
Council that the Nontax Revenues
during the preceding calendar year,
adjusted to reflect, if necessary,
changes in the rates or charges
resulting in the Nontax Revenues,
aggregate in amount not less than
100% of the highest amount of (a)
debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds to be paid from Nontax Revenues and (b) required payments on
such proposed parity obligations
and any outstanding parity obligations due in any succeeding calendar year.
Each
obligation
of
the
City
required to be undertaken pursuant
to this Ordinance and the Temporary Bonds is binding upon the City,
and upon each officer or employee
of the City as may from time to time
have the authority under law to
take any action on behalf of the
City as may be necessary to perform
all or any part of such obligation as
a duty of the City and of each of
those officers and employees resulting from an office, trust or station
within
the
meaning
of
Section
2731.01 of the Revised Code, providing for enforcement by writ of mandamus.
In the event that the interest on
the Temporary Bonds is to be provided for from Temporary Bond proceeds, or if in the judgment of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of the Financial
Advisor, a debt service reserve to
secure the Temporary Bonds is in
the best interest of and financially
advantageous to the City, the City
shall enter into a trust agreement
with the bank or trust company
serving as Registrar for the Temporary Bonds and providing for the
Debt Retirement Fund or a debt service reserve fund, as applicable, to
be held by that bank or trust company, in its capacity as trustee, and
such fund or funds are hereby
authorized. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, the trust
agreement in a form consistent with
this Ordinance and approved by the

942

May 18, 2005
Director of Law. The Mayor and the
Director of Finance and other City
officials, as appropriate, are authorized to take such actions as are
necessary or appropriate to consummate such additional security for
the Temporary Bonds. The City
hereby covenants and agrees to
appropriate annually from the Revenues and the Nontax Revenues into
any such funds amounts sufficient
to maintain the balances required
by the trust agreement and to
restore any deficiency therein.
Section 11. Deposit of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Temporary Bonds are appropriated
and shall be used for the purpose
for which the Temporary Bonds are
being issued. The proceeds from the
sale of the Temporary Bonds (exclusive of amounts to be used to pay
Financing Costs which shall be
deposited in a separate Costs of
Issuance Account) shall be deposited in the Debt Retirement Fund to
be used to refund the Prior Bonds
Series 2003 and, if applicable, to pay
interest on the Temporary Bonds;
provided that any portion of the proceeds of the Temporary Bonds to be
used to make a required deposit to
a debt service reserve fund shall be
paid into the debt service reserve
fund created pursuant to Section 10.
Any premium not used to pay costs
of issuance and accrued interest
received from the sale of the Temporary Bonds shall be deposited in
the Debt Retirement Fund.
Section 12. Disclosure. If, in the
judgment of the Director of Finance,
after consultation with the Financial Advisor and the Original Purchaser, an official statement or
other disclosure document is appropriate relating to the initial offering
of the Temporary Bonds, the Director of Finance, on behalf of the City
and in that officer’s official capacity, is authorized to (i) cooperate
with the Original Purchaser in the
preparation of, and the making of
modifications,
completions
or
changes of or supplements to, such
a disclosure document, (ii) determine, and to certify or otherwise
represent, when the disclosure document is to be deemed final or is
final, (iii) authorize the use and distribution of that disclosure document and any supplements thereto
in connection with the initial offering of the Temporary Bonds, (iv)
notwithstanding the requirements
of, and as an exception to, Codified
Ordinance 177.01(a), contract with a
printer to print the Official Statement, and (v) sign certificates,
statements or other documents in
connection with the finality, accuracy, and completeness of that disclosure document.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Temporary Bonds, the City
agrees, as the only obligated person
with
respect
to
the
Temporary
Bonds under the Rule, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information
and
operating
data,
audited financial statements and
notices, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of paragraph
(b)(5)(i) of the Rule. In order to
describe and specify certain terms

May 18, 2005
of the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for that purpose and
thereby to implement that agreement,
including
provisions
for
enforcement, amendment, and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
and if required under the Rule, a
Continuing Disclosure Certificate or
Certificates in conformance with the
reporting requirements of the Rule.
The agreement formed collectively,
by this paragraph and that Certificate, shall be the City’s continuing
disclosure agreement for purposes
of the Rule, and its performance
shall be subject to the annual appropriation of any funds that may be
necessary to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the legal counsel and bond or other qualified independent special counsel to the City.
The Director of Finance, acting in
the name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Section 13. Ratings, Insurance,
and Other Credit Enhancement. If,
in the judgment of the Director of
Finance after consultation with the
Financial Advisor, the filing of an
application for a rating on the Temporary Bonds by one or more nationally recognized rating agencies or a
Credit Support Instrument is in the
best interest of, and financially
advantageous to the City, the Director of Finance is authorized to prepare and submit those applications,
to provide to each such agency, company or credit provider such information as may be required for the
purpose. The cost of obtaining each
rating and Credit Support Instrument, except to the extent paid by
the Original Purchaser in accordance with the Purchase Agreement,
shall be paid from the proceeds of
the Temporary Bonds.
Section 14. Interest Rate Swaps,
Hedges and Caps. For the purpose
of achieving the optimal available
debt structure for the Temporary
Bonds, the Director of Finance may,
based on the written advice of the
Financial Advisor, enter into one or
more agreements in connection with
or subsequent to the issuance of the
Temporary Bonds for an interest
rate swap, an interest rate cap or
other such arrangement to lower the
effective interest rate on the obligation to the City or, to hedge the
exposure of the City against fluctuations in prevailing interest rates,
provided, however, that: (i) the debt
structure that is simulated through
the combination of the Temporary
Bonds with any such agreements
shall comply with the restrictions of
this Ordinance on the terms of and
security for the Temporary Bonds

The City Record
applied to that structure as though
it consisted solely of Temporary
Bonds; (ii) the counterparty to any
swap agreement and the provider of
any interest rate cap shall have a
rating of at least “A” by either
Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. or
Standard & Poor’s Corporation; (iii)
no such agreement shall purport to
entitle
the
counterparty
to
the
agreement to payment by the City
from any source other than the
sources which secure the Temporary
Bonds as described in this Ordinance; and (iv) the cost of obtaining any such interest rate cap or
other such arrangement shall have
been determined by the Director of
Finance,
based
on
the
written
advice of the Financial Advisor, to
be justified by the corresponding
benefit to the City and to be commercially reasonably based on then
current
market
conditions.
The
notional amount on which any such
agreement is based shall not be subject to the limitations set forth herein
on
the
maximum
principal
amount of the Temporary Bonds.
Section 15. Covenants. In the event
that
the
Temporary
Bonds
are
issued and sold as obligations bearing interest that is excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes, the covenants in this Section 15 shall govern. However, if the
Temporary Bonds are issued and
sold as obligations bearing interest
that is included in gross income for
federal income tax purposes, the
City shall not be bound by the
covenants
of
this
Section
with
respect to the Temporary Bonds.
Subject to the foregoing, the City
covenants that it will use and will
restrict the use and investment of,
the proceeds of the Temporary
Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the Temporary Bonds will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds,
arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds
under Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the “Code”) or (ii) be
treated other than as bonds to which
Section 103(a) of the Code applies,
and (b) the interest on the Temporary Bonds will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code. The City further
covenants that (a) it will take or
cause to be taken such actions that
may be required of it for the interest on the Temporary Bonds to be
and remain excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will not take or authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting
for it, will, among other acts of
compliance, (i) apply the proceeds
of the Temporary Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing,
(ii) restrict the yield on investment
property, (iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports, and (v) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as
applicable,
of
property
financed
with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the extent necessary to
assure such exclusion of that interest under the Code.

943

11
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Temporary Bonds is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Temporary Bonds as
the City is permitted to or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting the favorable tax
treatment or status of the Temporary Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Temporary Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Temporary Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Temporary
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Temporary Bonds.
Section 16. Captions, Headings,
and Section References. The captions and headings in this Ordinance
are solely for convenience of reference and in no way define, limit, or
describe the scope or intent of any
Sections, subsections, paragraphs,
subparagraphs, or clauses hereof.
Reference to a Section means a section of this Ordinance unless otherwise indicated.
Section 17. Interpretation. Any provisions of the Codified Ordinances of
the City which are inconsistent with
the provisions of this Ordinance shall
not apply to the Temporary Bonds
authorized herein. Nothing in this
Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be applied in any
manner as would impair the obligation of contract of the City with
respect to any outstanding bonds,
Temporary
Bonds,
certificate
of
indebtedness, other obligations, trust
indentures, trust agreements, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City.
Section 18. Satisfaction of Conditions. This Council determines that
all acts and conditions necessary to
be done or performed by the City or

12
to have been met precedent to and
in the issuing of the Temporary
Bonds in order to make them legal,
valid, and binding special obligations of the City have been performed and have been met, or will
at the time of deliver of the Temporary Bonds have been performed
and have been met, in regular and
due form as required by law, and
that no limitation of indebtedness or
taxation, either statutory or constitutional, is applicable to the issuance of the Temporary Bonds.
Section 19. Compliance with Open
Meeting Requirements. This Council
finds and determines that all formal
actions of this Council and any of
its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this Ordinance
were taken in an open meeting of
this Council or committees, and that
all deliberations of this Council and
any of its committees that resulted
in those formal actions were in
meetings open to the public, all in
compliance with the law.
Section 20. Emergency. This Ordinance is hereby declared to be an
emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 944-05.
By Council Members Gordon, Britt,
Sweeney, Cimperman and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of closing the
Bradley Road Landfill; authorizing
the Directors of Public Health and
Public Service to enter into one or
more public improvement contracts
for the making of the improvement;
and authorizing the Directors to
employ one or more professional
consultants to analyze and design
the Improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
closing the Bradley Road Landfill,
for
the
Departments
of
Public
Health and Public Service, by one or
more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding on a unit
basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Directors of
Public Health and Public Service
are authorized to enter into one or
more contracts for the making of
the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding on a unit
basis for the improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade

The City Record
and each distinct component part of
the improvement may be treated as
a separate improvement, and each,
or any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Directors of
Public Health and Public Service
are authorized to employ by contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to analyze and design the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Directors of Public
Health and Public Service from a
list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Directors of Public
Health and Public Service for the
purpose of compiling a list. The
compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Directors of Public Health and Public Service, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 4. That the cost of contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from the proceeds of the
final closure letter of credit required
by Ohio Administrative Code Rules
3745-400-12, 3745-400-13 and 3745-40014, which proceeds shall be deposited in Special Revenue Fund No. 10304, Request No. 149753.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Public Service, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Health and Human
Services, Public Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 945-05.
By Council Members Coats, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of replacing a
water main and culvert under Courtland Boulevard in the City of Shaker Heights; and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to

944

May 18, 2005
make the public improvement of
replacing a water main and culvert
under Courtland Boulevard in the
City of Shaker Heights, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, by one or more contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders after competitive
bidding on a unit price basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders after competitive
bidding on a unit price for the
improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct
component
part
of
the
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract on a unit price
basis.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
share equally in the cost of the
improvement by reimbursing, or
accepting reimbursement from, the
City of Shaker Heights. The Director of Public Utilities is authorized
to enter into any agreements necessary to effectuate the purposes of
this Section.
Section 4. That all public improvement contracts entered into under
this ordinance shall contain the MBE,
FBE, and workforce goals in effect
at the time the contracts were bid.
Section 5. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 52 SF 001, Request No. 159446.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 946-05.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to apply for and accept a Water Supply Revolving Loan Account loan to
provide funding for the Morgan Filter Rehabilitation Project; determining the method of making the public improvement of constructing the
improvements; and authorizing the
director to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for
the making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to apply for and accept a Water Supply
Revolving Loan Account (“WSRLA”)
loan in the approximate amount of

May 18, 2005
$27,000,000 to provide funding for
the Morgan Filter Rehabilitation
Project, including but not limited to,
renovating and rehabilitating filters
and
appurtenances,
constructing
structural improvements, upgrading
HVAC, electrical, and plumbing systems, constructing a new filter control room, and installing a filter-towaste system (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into a loan agreement with
the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency and the Ohio Water Development Authority for a WSRLA loan
which loan agreement shall substantially be in the same form as
the agreement contained in File No.
946-05-A. The Director of Public Utilities is further authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents to
receive the funds under the WSRLA
Agreement; and appropriate the loan
funds for the purposes as set forth
in the WSRLA Agreement.
Section 3. That on execution of the
WSRLA Agreement, the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
repay the loan funds to the WSRLA
in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the WSRLA Agreement, from the operating revenues
of the Division of Water.
Section 4. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement as
described in Section 1 of this ordinance, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, by
one or more contracts duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the Improvement.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders after competitive
bidding for a gross price for the
Improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct
component
part
of
the
Improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a gross price.
On request of the director the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule of unit prices, including profit
and overhead, for all items constituting units of the Improvement.
Section 6. That all public improvement contracts entered into under
this ordinance shall contain the MBE,
FBE, and workforce goals in effect
at the time the contracts were bid.
Section 7. That the cost of the
Improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 52 SF 229 and
from the fund or funds which are
credited the loan proceeds received
under this ordinance, Request No.
159436.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

The City Record
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 947-05.
By Council Members Coats, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of cleaning and
cement mortar lining of various distribution water mains; and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement of cleaning and
cement mortar lining of various distribution water mains in the City of
Cleveland, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, by
one or more contracts duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct
component
part
of
the
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a gross price.
Section 3. That all public improvement contracts entered into under
this ordinance shall contain the
MBE, FBE, and workforce goals in
effect at the time the contracts were
bid.
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 52 SF 229,
Request No. 159433.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 948-05.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to test, remove,
and replace utility poles, for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period not to exceed two years.

945

13
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of two
years of the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
test, remove, and replace utility
poles, on an as-needed basis, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than two years may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
account and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
purchase,
which
purchase,
together with all later purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the
Director of Finance. (RL 153645)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 949-05.
By Council Members Coats, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of demolishing
the
Morgan
Pump
Station;
and
authorizing the Director of Public
Utilities to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for
the making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
demolishing the Morgan Pump Sta-

14
tion, excavating, performing site
preparation, analyzing, testing, and
performing environmental remediation, and handling and disposing of
hazardous materials, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, by one or more contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders after competitive
bidding for a gross price for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders after competitive
bidding for a gross price for the
improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct
component
part
of
the
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a gross price.
On request of the director the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule of unit prices, including profit
and overhead, for all items constituting units of the improvement.
Section 3. That all public improvement contracts entered into under
this ordinance shall contain the MBE,
FBE, and workforce goals in effect
at the time the contracts were bid.
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 52 SF 229, Request No. 159431.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 950-05.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into professional services
contracts, purchase contracts and
requirement contracts to obtain marketing and advertising services,
materials, and equipment necessary
to promote the Division of Water
Pollution Control and educate the
public, for a period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide marketing, promotional, and advertising services necessary to promote the Division of
Water Pollution Control, for a period of two years.

The City Record
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Utilities for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract
or
contracts
authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Utilities, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make
one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for a two
year period of the necessary items of
advertisements and marketing, promotional and advertising services,
materials, and equipment necessary
to promote and advertise the Division of Water Pollution Control, in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Department of Public
Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the items
as the Board of Control determines.
Alternate bids for a period less than
the specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Utilities is further authorized
to make one or more written contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for each or all of the following items: advertisements and
marketing, promotional, and advertising, materials, equipment and services which are not the subject of
Section 1 of this ordinance, necessary to promote and advertise the
Division of Water Pollution Control,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a
unit basis, for the Department of
Public Utilities.
Section 4. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 54 SF 001 and shall be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 150138)
Section 5. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.

946

May 18, 2005
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 951-05.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide services necessary to design, layout, produce,
and distribute 2005 and 2006 educational materials, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to design, layout,
produce, and distribute 2005 and
2006 educational materials, including but not limited to writing, photography and artwork offset lithographic reproduction, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public
Utilities from a list of qualified
consultants available for employment as may be determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Utilities for the
purpose of compiling a list. The
compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall be prepared
by the Director of Law, approved
by the Director of Public Utilities,
and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 52 SF 001,
Request No. 159448.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.

May 18, 2005
Ord. No. 952-05.
By Council Members Coats, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to accept state funding from the Ohio Public Works
Commission for the Big Creek Watershed Stormwater Management Project; determining the method of
making the public improvement of
constructing the Project; authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
for the making of the Improvement;
authorizing the director to employ
one or more firms of engineers and
other professional consultants to provide professional services to implement the Project; authorizing agreements with ODOT, NEORSD and the
City of Parma to financially cooperate in the Project; authorizing the
director to apply and pay for permits, licenses and other authorizations required for the Project; and
authorizing the director to purchase,
lease, or otherwise acquire easements and other interests in real
property as required for the Project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Mayor is
authorized to accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $3,940,320,
from the Ohio Public Works Commission, acting by and through its
Director, to finance the capital improvement of the Big Creek Watershed Stormwater Management Project (the “Project”).
Section 2. That on acceptance of
the grant funds from the Ohio Public Works Commission, the Director
of Public Utilities may enter into
agreements with the Ohio Department of Transportation, the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District,
and the City of Parma to financially cooperate in the Project; and further that the Director is authorized
to accept the funds under these
agreements.
Section 3. That the funds received
from the Ohio Department of Transportation, the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District, and the City
of Parma for the Project are appropriated for this purpose and shall be
deposited into the fund or funds designated for that purpose.
Section 4. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
constructing the Project, for the
Department of Public Utilities, by
one or more contracts duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding on a unit
basis for the improvement.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders after competitive
bidding on a unit basis for the
improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct
component
part
of
the
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or

The City Record
any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 6. That all public improvement contracts entered into under
this ordinance shall contain the
MBE, FBE, and workforce goals in
effect at the time the contracts were
bid.
Section 7. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to design the Project.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Utilities for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract
or
contracts
authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Utilities, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 8. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
apply and pay for permits, licenses,
or other authorizations required by
any regulating entity or other public authority to perform the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 9. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to purchase,
lease or otherwise acquire easements, fee interests, licenses, permits and other rights or interests in
real property necessary for the public improvement authorized by this
ordinance.
Section 10. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to execute on behalf of the City of Cleveland all necessary documents to
acquire the rights or interests in
real property and to employ title
companies, surveyors, escrow agents,
appraisers,
environmental
consultants, field service consultants and
other consultants necessary for the
acquisition or use of the rights or
interest in real property authorized
by this ordinance.
Section 11. That the cost of the
Project and all other expenditures
authorized by this ordinance shall
be paid from Fund No. 54 SF 001, 20
SF 364, 20 SF 373, 20 SF 380, 20 SF
383, 20 SF 394, 20 SF 500; from the
fund or funds which are credited the
proceeds of the sale of 2005 general
obligation bonds which are issued
for this purpose and include this
Project and are appropriated for
this purpose; from the fund or funds
which
are
credited
the
funds
received from the Northeast Ohio
Regional Sewer District, and the
City of Parma, which are appropriated for this purpose; and from the
fund or funds which are credited the
grant proceeds received from the
Ohio Public Works Commission.

947

15
Section 12. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 953-05.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of burials or
cremation
services
for
indigent
dead, for the Division of Health,
Department of Public Health, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for a two-year period
of the necessary items of burials or
cremation
services
for
indigent
dead, in the approximate amount as
purchased during the preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Division of Health, Department of Public Health. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies
under
a
requisition
against the contract or contracts
certified
by
the
Director
of
Finance. (RL 149750)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Health and Human Services,
Finance.

16
Ord. No. 955-05.
By Council Members Britt, White
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 551.38 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2393-02,
passed February 3, 2003, relating to
disposal of used tires, reporting.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 551.38 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003 as amended by Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February
3, 2003, is amended to read as follows:
Section 551.38
Disposal of Used
Tires; Reporting
(a) Registration. No person, firm,
or corporation shall accept for disposal more than five (5) automobile,
truck, motorcycle, or bicycle tires in
any one calendar month in any one
year unless and until the person,
firm, or corporation has registered
with the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses as a source of
waste tires. Junk yards as defined
in Section 325.40, repair garages as
defined in Section 325.30 and businesses which repair or replace tires
shall register under this section
unless a sworn affidavit is submitted to the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses from an authorized representative affirming that
it does not dispose of more than five
(5) automobile, truck, motorcycle, or
bicycle tires in any one calendar
month in any one year. The Commissioner
of
Assessments
and
Licenses shall furnish a registration
form for the purposes of the registration, and, upon the payment of a
fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00),
shall issue a certificate of registration, which may apply to all locations at which the registrant does
business.
Registrations
shall
be
renewed annually. The form for registration shall contain the name and
address of the registrant, and if a
partnership, the names and addresses of all partners, and if a corporation, the name of the corporation
and the names and addresses of the
officers and the statutory agent and
shall contain additional information
as deemed necessary by the Commissioner
of
Assessments
and
Licenses. Copies of all certificates of
registration issued by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses
shall be provided to the Commissioner of Environment.
(b) Reporting. All persons, firms,
or corporations registered under
division (a) of this section shall
report tire disposal activity to the
Commissioner of Environment by
submitting a monthly tire disposal
report to the Commissioner of Environment on a form promulgated by
the Commissioner for that purpose.
The monthly tire disposal report
form shall contain the date and time
that tires were hauled off the registrant’s premises during the previous month. The form shall also

The City Record
require disclosure of the identity of
each waste hauler transporting tires
off the registrant’s premises, and
the license tag number of each
truck used to transport tires off the
registrant’s premises. The monthly
tire disposal report form shall cover
a calendar month and be submitted
to the Commissioner of Environment
no later than ten (10) days after the
last date of the calendar month in
question.
(c) No person, firm, or corporation
who disposes of tires shall fail to
register as a source of waste tires
as provided in division (a) of this
section, or fail to submit monthly
tire disposal report forms to the
Commissioner of Environment as
provided in division (b) of this section, or fail to provide complete
information required by the forms.
(d) No person, firm, or corporation
shall engage another for the purpose of hauling waste tires unless
the waste hauler is licensed under
Section 551.19 et seq. of this chapter.
(e) Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
Section 2. That existing Section
551.38 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, 2393-02, passed
February 3, 2003 as amended by
Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Health and Human Services, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 956-05.
By Council Members White, Britt
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
lease certain space located at the
Miles Broadway Health Center to
The Ohio State University Extension
to provide food and nutrition education programs and development programs, for a period of five years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Health is authorized to lease approximately 8,300 square feet on the
first floor of the Miles Broadway
Health Center to The Ohio State University
Extension
(“OSU
Extension”) for the public purpose of providing food and nutrition education
programs
and
development
programs for the term of the lease. The
services, include but are not limited
to, providing food and nutrition education programs, including family

948

May 18, 2005
nutrition, family and consumer sciences, 4-H/youth development, horticulture, and community development
services.
Section 2. That the term of the
lease authorized by this ordinance
shall be for a period of five years
commencing August 31, 2005.
Section
3.
That
the
property
described above shall be leased for
other valuable considerations, which
is considered to be fair market
value.
Section 4. That the lease may
authorize OSU Extension to make
improvements to the leased premises subject to the approval of appropriate City agencies and officials,
and to authorize the Lessee to contribute a share of the operating
costs at the facility, including but
not limited to security, seasonal
groundskeeping services, utilities,
and indoor building cleaning services.
Section 5. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Health, the Director of Law,
and other appropriate City officials
are authorized to execute any other
documents and certificates, and take
any other actions which may be necessary or appropriate to effect the
lease authorized by this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Health and Human Services,
Finance.
Ord. No. 957-05.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
enter into an agreement or memorandum of understanding with the
Cleveland Municipal Court for clinical services; and to accept payments
for clinical services provided to the
Court.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into an agreement or memorandum
of understanding, as appropriate,
with the Cleveland Municipal Court,
in order for the City of Cleveland to
receive and accept reimbursement
payments for clinical services provided to individuals referred by the
Court.
Section 2. That the reimbursement
payments collected under this ordinance shall be deposited into a fund
to be designated by the Director of
Finance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all

May 18, 2005
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Health and Human Services,
Finance.
Ord. No. 958-05.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
enter into one or more contracts
with the Ohio Department of Health
in order for the City of Cleveland to
receive compensation for conducting
inspections of summer food program
sites.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with the
Ohio Department of Health in order
for the City of Cleveland to receive
compensation for conducting inspections of summer food program sites.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Health and Human Services,
Finance.
Ord. No. 959-05.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of animal
trapping services, for the Division
of Health, Department of Public
Health.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one year of the necessary items of animal trapping services, in the approximate amount as
purchased
during
the
preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Division of
Health,
Department
of
Public
Health. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the

The City Record
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 149752)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Health and Human Services,
Finance.
Ord. No. 960-05.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Public Safety, for the 2006 EMS/Fire Training
and Equipment Grant, and authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more requirement
contracts for the purchase of equipment and training necessary to
implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
amount of $206,366.70, from the Ohio
Department of Public Safety, to conduct the 2006 EMS/Fire Training
and Equipment Grant, for the purposes in the application; that the
Director of Public Safety is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes set forth in the application
for the grant.
Section 2. That the application for
the grant, File No. 960-05-A made a
part as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance Committee of
this Council at the public hearing on
this legislation and shall not be
changed without additional legislative authority, is approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
if the extension does not involve an
increase in the dollar amount of the
grant specified above.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to make one

949

17
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the
period of the grant term for the necessary items of equipment and training necessary to implement the
grant, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Department
of Public Safety. Bids shall be taken
in a manner which permits an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the items
as the Board of Control determines.
Alternate bids for a period less than
the grant term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire grant term.
That the cost of the contract or
contracts shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify the amount of the initial purchase,
which
purchase,
together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies under a
requisition against the contract or
contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety and Finance.
Ord. No. 961-05.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the County of Cuyahoga for the 2005
State Homeland Security Program;
authorizing one or more requirement
contracts for the purchase of training, equipment, and services necessary to implement the grant; authorizing the Director to employ one or
more professional consultants necessary to implement the grant; and
authorizing one or more agreements
with the County of Cuyahoga to
implement the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
amount of $936,600, from the County
of Cuyahoga to conduct the 2005
State Homeland Security Program;
that the Director is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the award letter
and spending plan for the grant contained in the file described below.

18
Section 2. That the award letter
and spending plan for the grant,
File No. 961-05-A, made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, as
presented to the Finance Committee
of this Council at the public hearing
on this legislation and shall not be
changed without additional legislative authority, is approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the necessary items of training,
equipment, and services needed to
implement the program as described
in the file. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than the grant term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
That under Section 108(b) of the
Charter, the purchases authorized
by this ordinance may be made
through
cooperative
agreements
using state procedures. The Director
of Public Safety may sign all documents with the State of Ohio or any
of its political subdivisions that are
necessary to make the purchases,
and may enter into one or more contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public
Safety
is
authorized
to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to implement the
grant as described in the file.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public
Safety from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Safety for the purpose
of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Safety, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 5. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be charged
against the fund or funds which are
credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance and shall be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director.
Section 6. That The Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with
the County of Cuyahoga to the grant
as described in the file.

The City Record
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
if the extension does not involve an
increase in the dollar amount of the
grant specified above.
Section 8. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 962-05.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the County of Cuyahoga for the 2005
Urban Area Security Initiative Program; authorizing one or more requirement contracts for the purchase
of training, equipment, and services
necessary to implement the grant;
authorizing the Director to employ
one or more professional consultants
necessary to implement the grant;
and authorizing one or more agreements with the County of Cuyahoga
to implement the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
amount of $3,692,549, from the County of Cuyahoga to conduct the 2005
Urban
Area
Security
Initiative
(“UASI”) Program; that the Director
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes set forth in the
award letter and spending plan for
the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the award letter
and spending plan for the grant,
File No. 962-05-A, made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, as
presented to the Finance Committee
of this Council at the public hearing
on this legislation and shall not be
changed without additional legislative authority, is approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the necessary items of training,
equipment, and services needed to
implement the program as described
in the file. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control shall

950

May 18, 2005
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than the grant term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
That under Section 108(b) of the
Charter, the purchases authorized
by this ordinance may be made
through
cooperative
agreements
using state procedures. The Director
of Public Safety may sign all documents with the State of Ohio or any
of its political subdivisions that are
necessary to make the purchases,
and may enter into one or more contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public
Safety
is
authorized
to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to implement the
grant as described in the file.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public
Safety from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Safety for the purpose
of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Safety, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 5. That the estimated sum
of $110,776 is appropriated to the
Department of Public Safety for
administrative costs necessary to
implement the Program.
Section 6. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be charged
against the fund or funds which are
credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance and shall be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director.
Section 7. That The Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with
the County of Cuyahoga to the grant
as described in the file.
Section 8. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
if the extension does not involve an
increase in the dollar amount of the
grant specified above.
Section 9. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

May 18, 2005
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 963-05.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Public Safety, for the 2006 EMS Training and
Equipment Grant, and authorizing
the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more requirement
contracts for the purchase of equipment and training necessary to
implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
amount of $20,000, from the Ohio
Department of Public Safety, to conduct the 2006 EMS Training and
Equipment Grant, for the purposes
in the application and according
thereto; that the Director of Public
Safety is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the application for the
grant.
Section 2. That the application for
the grant, File No. 963-05-A, made a
part as if fully rewritten herein, as
presented to the Finance Committee
of this Council at the public hearing
on this legislation and shall not be
changed without additional legislative authority, is approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
if said extension does not involve an
increase in the dollar amount of the
grant specified above.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of the grant term for the
necessary items of equipment and
training necessary to implement the
grant, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Department
of Public Safety. Bids shall be taken
in a manner that permits an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the grant term may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire grant
term.
That the cost of the contract or
contracts shall be charged against
the fund or funds which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance, from the cash
match, and from proper appropriation account and the Director of
Finance shall certify the amount of

The City Record
the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committee on
Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 964-05.
By Council Members White, Johnson and Jackson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to accept a gift
of a play structure and its installation at the Earle B. Turner Recreation Center from Park Structure
and Snider & Associates; and to
allow and accept the installation of
the play structure.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to accept a gift from
Park Structure and Snider & Associates of a play structure for, installation at, the Earle B. Turner Recreation Center, valued at $10,000, plus
the value of the installation.
Section 2. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into one or more
agreements with Park Structure and
Snider & Associates to allow the
installation of the play structure at
the Earle B. Turner Recreation Center and to accept the improvements.
Section 3. That the agreement or
agreements shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 965-05.
By Council Members Britt, Johnson, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to lease a portion of certain property known as
Ambler Park to Case Western Reserve University, for a term of ninety-nine years, for the purpose of creating and maintaining landscaped
greenspace and making site improvements as an entryway to the
university.

951

19
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain property known as
Ambler Park and certain portions
are not needed for public use; and
Whereas, Case Western Reserve
University has proposed to lease a
portion of the property from the
City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is authorized to lease to Case Western
Reserve University (“Lessee”), certain property which is not needed
for public use for the term of the
lease:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF
P.P.N. 121-13-022
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 411 and all
of Sublot Nos. 19 through 26 and
part of Sublot Nos. 27 through 35 of
the Martha B. Ambler Subdivision
recorded in Volume 14, Page 38 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records, and
that portion of East 114th Street
vacated by Ordinance 1305-56 on
June 28, 1956 and further bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning at a 1" iron monument
found at the centerline of Ambleside
Road (60 feet wide) and at the intersection of the centerline of Murray
Hill Road (60 feet wide) and the
original centerline of Cedar Avenue
(83 feet wide)(formerly Cedar Glen
Boulevard);
Thence North 00°-38'-15" West
along the centerline of Murray Hill
Road, 85.91 feet to a point;
Thence North 82°-14'-55" West,
30.32 feet to a P.K. Nail set in
asphalt at the intersection of the
northerly line of Cedar Avenue and
the westerly line of Murray Hill
Road and the principal place of
beginning of the premises herein
described;
Thence North 82°-14'-55" West
along the northerly line of Cedar
Avenue, 482.51 feet to a drill hole set
in concrete at the easterly line of
land conveyed to The Cleveland
Rapid Transit Authority by deed
recorded in Volume 7804, Page 94 of
Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence
North
28°-50'-39"
East
along the easterly line of land so
conveyed, 123.38 feet to a drill hole
set in concrete steps;
Thence North 89°-18'-25" East and
along the southerly line of Glenwood Avenue (40 feet wide), 416.63
feet to a P.K. Nail set in asphalt at
the westerly line of aforesaid Murray Hill Road;
Thence
South
00°-38'-15"
East
along the westerly line of Murray
Hill Road, 178.20 feet to the principal place of beginning and containing 1.4897 acres of land as surveyed
and described by Edward B. Dudley,
P.S. No. 6747 of The Riverstone Company in October 2002, be the same
more or less but subject to all legal
highways.

20
Note: The portion of East 114th
Street, as vacated by Ordinance 130556, within the parcel described herein, is subject to the easement for
maintenance of water mains and
sewers as described in Section 2 of
said Ordinance 1305-56.
Basis of Bearings: The centerline
of Cedar Avenue is North 82°-14'-55"
West as shown on the Cedar Glen
Boulevard Plat recorded in July
1930, in Map M-2429 of Cuyahoga
County Engineers Office.
Section 2. That the term of the
lease authorized by this ordinance
shall not exceed ninety-nine years.
Section
3.
That
the
property
described above shall be leased for
other valuable considerations, which
is considered to be fair market
value.
Section 4. That the lease may
authorize
the
Lessee
to
make
improvements to the leased premises subject to the approval of appropriate City agencies and officials.
Section 5. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain any terms and conditions as are required to protect the
interests of the City.
Section 6. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
the Director of Law, and other
appropriate City officials are authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary or appropriate to effect the
lease authorized by this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Property and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 966-05.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Johnson, Westbrook and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Port Control to lease certain properties located on Dock 32 and the East 9th
Street pier to the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority, for a
term of one year, with five options
to renew for additional one-year
periods, for the purpose of creating
approximately 600 parking spaces
and for operations.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain properties known as
Dock 32 and the East 9th Street pier
which portions are suitable for lease
and operation by another party for
a public use; and
Whereas, the Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County Port Authority has proposed
to lease the properties from the City;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Port Control are authorized to lease to Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority (“Lessee”) through one or more
leases, approximately 213,100 square
feet of property located on Dock 32
and approximately 57,600 square feet
of property located on the East 9th
Street Pier to be used to create
approximately 600 parking spaces.
Section 2. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties and Port
Control are authorized to lease to
Lessee, through one or more leases,
approximately 10,000 square feet of
property located in the warehouse
on Dock 32 for the storage of maintenance equipment and to house
Lessee’s security and maintenance
personnel.
Section 3. The properties to be
leased under Sections 1 and 2 of this
ordinance for the term of the lease
or leases and are more fully shown
on the maps contained in File No.
966-05-A.
Section 4. That the term of the
lease or leases authorized by this
ordinance shall not exceed one year,
with five options to renew for additional one-year periods.
Section 5. That the properties
described above shall be leased for
One Dollar per year and other valuable considerations, which are considered to be fair market value.
Section 6. That the lease or leases may authorize the Lessees to
make improvements to the leased
premises subject to the approval of
appropriate City agencies and officials.
Section 7. That the lease or leases shall be prepared by the Director
of Law.
Section 8. That the Directors of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
Port Control, and Law, and other
appropriate City officials are authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary or appropriate to effect the
lease authorized by this ordinance.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Port Control,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Parks, Property and Recreation,
Aviation and Transportation, City
Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 967-05.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with
Tastebuds, LLC, dba Tastebuds, to
provide economic development assis-

952

May 18, 2005
tance in the form of a loan and a
grant to partially finance the interior leasehold improvement, architectural and engineering fees and
other costs associated with interior
renovation of an existing restaurant
located at 1400 East 30th Street.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into contract with
Tastebuds, LLC, dba Tastebuds to
provide economic development assistance in the form of a loan and a
grant to partially finance the interior leasehold improvement, architectural and engineering fees and
other costs associated with interior
renovation of an existing restaurant
located at 1400 East 30th Street.
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan and the grant shall be according to the terms set forth in the
Summary contained in File No. 96705-A as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the
public hearing on this legislation
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the cost of the
loan shall not exceed Forty-Two
Thousand Dollars ($42,000), and the
cost of the grant shall not exceed
Eight Thousand Dollars ($8,000).
The loan and grant shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 17 SF 008 and 17 SF
652, which funds are appropriated
for this purpose, Request No. 103649.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept the collateral as set
forth in the file referenced above in
order to secure repayment of the
loan. Any loan agreement, security
instrument, or other document shall
be prepared and approved by the
Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies in Fund Nos. 17 SF 006.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and the fees are appropriated to cover costs incurred in
the preparation of the loan application, closing and servicing of the
loans. The fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 17 SF
305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 8. That the contracts and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

May 18, 2005

The City Record

21

Ord. No. 968-05.
By Council Members Gordon, Lewis and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to accept a grant from the Ohio
Department of Job and Family Services for the 2005 Workforce Investment Act Program; to enter into contracts
with various entities necessary to administer the Program; and to enter into a grant agreement with Cuyahoga
County to administer its workforce program; authorizing the Mayor to enter into an intergovernmental agreement
with Cuyahoga County to establish and administer a consolidated Workforce Investment Program; and authorizing
the establishment of a regional Council of Governments to act as administrative entity and fiscal agent for the
consolidated program.
Whereas, the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, Public Law 105-220 (“WIA”), the purpose of which is to “. . .
provide workforce investment activities, through statewide and local workforce investment systems, that increase
the employment, retention, and earnings of participants, and increase occupational skill attainment by participants, and, as a result, improve the quality of the workforce, reduce welfare dependency, and enhance the productivity and competitiveness of the nation”; and
Whereas, under WIA, the Governor of the State of Ohio has designated Ohio Workforce Areas for the WIA
throughout Ohio and the governor has designated the geographic boundaries of Cuyahoga County (“County”),
including the City of Cleveland (“City”), as Ohio Workforce Area No. 3 (“OWA No. 3”); and
Whereas, in order to achieve greater cooperation, better address the needs of the citizens of the City and the
County, maximize the use of available funds, and comply with the request of the Ohio Governor’s Workforce Policy Board of the State of Ohio and generally administer funds and programs under the WIA, the City and the
County intend to combine their boards, service areas, and programs and maintain and operate a single consolidated program in accordance with a Letter of Intent entered into by the Mayor and the Cuyahoga County Board
of Commissioners on December 7, 2004 (“LOI”); and
Whereas, in accordance with the agreement required by the WIA and approved by the Governor, for the WIA
Program Year (“PY”) 2005 for the period of July 1, 2005 through June 30, 2006, between the Chairman of the
Workforce Investment Board of Cleveland (“WIBC”) and the City, the City has been designated as the WIA grant
recipient, administrative entity, for OWA No. 3; and
Whereas, with the agreement of the Cuyahoga County Board of County Commissioners, the City will enter into
a grant agreement with the County and the Chairman of the Workforce Investment Board of the County as the
WIA grant recipient, administrative entity, to fund the County staff and County programs in OWA No. 3; and
Whereas, the City and the County want to establish a Regional Council of Governments (“RCOG”) as provided
in Ohio Revised Code Chapter 167 to act as the fiscal agent and administrative entity for OWA No. 3; and
Whereas, the Mayor and the County Board of Commissioners must enter into an intergovernmental agreement
to facilitate the creation of a consolidated workforce investment area for OWA No. 3;
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to accept a grant in the approximate amount
of $18,400,000.00, or portions thereof, from the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services, or its designee as fiscal agent, for the 2005 Workforce Investment Act grant for the delivery of allowable program services to eligible individuals and, if recognized by the State of Ohio, for the City to act as fiscal agent for OWA No. 3. The
Director of Economic Development is authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant.
Section 2. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with
various agencies, entities or organizations to implement the following components of the grant, payable from the
funds or fund that are credited the proceeds of the grant accepted in this ordinance.
• 10 YOUTH PROGRAM ELEMENTS
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
•
•
•

Tutoring, Study Skills and Instruction
Alternative Secondary School Services
Summer Employment Experiences
Paid Work Experience
Occupational Skills Training
Leadership Development
Supportive Services
Mentoring
Follow-up Services
Comprehensive Guidance and Counseling
JOB READINESS TRAINING
JOB DEVELOPMENT/JOB PLACEMENT
JOB FAIRS, YOUTH COUNCIL MEETINGS AND EVENTS, PROVIDER MEETINGS, PROGRAM RECOGNITION
EVENTS

Adult Employment and Training
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

OCCUPATIONAL SKILLS TRAINING
ON-THE-JOB TRAINING
CUSTOMIZED TRAINING
PAID WORK EXPERIENCE
SPECIALIZED POPULATION SERVICES
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES
JOB READINESS TRAINING
FOLLOW-UP
JOB DEVELOPMENT
JOB FAIRS, WIB MEETINGS, PROVIDER MEETINGS, PROGRAM RECOGNITION EVENTS

953

The City Record

22

May 18, 2005

Dislocated Worker Employment and Training
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

OCCUPATIONAL SKILLS TRAINING
ON-THE-JOB TRAINING
CUSTOMIZED TRAINING
PAID WORK EXPERIENCE
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES
JOB READINESS TRAINING
FOLLOW-UP
JOB DEVELOPMENT
JOB FAIRS, WIB MEETINGS, PROVIDER MEETINGS, PROGRAM RECOGNITION EVENTS
RAPID RESPONSE MEETINGS AND EVENTS

The contracts authorized by this section shall contain a provision that the Director of Economic Development
may assign the contract to the RCOG or to another fiscal agent designated to receive all or any portion of the
2005 Workforce Investment Act grant funds for the delivery of allowable program services to eligible individuals in OWA No. 3.
Section 3. That the following amounts are appropriated as follows to provide for administration of the WIA
programs:
A.

Youth Activities
Personnel and Related Expenses . . . . . . . . . . $ 900,000.00
Other Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $5,800,000.00
Total
$6,700,000.00

B.

Adult Employment and Training
Personnel and Related Expenses . . . . . . . . . . $ 750,000.00
Other Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $5,550,000.00
Total
$6,300,000.00

C.

Dislocated Worker Employment and Training
Personnel and Related Expenses . . . . . . . . . . $ 750,000.00
Other Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $4,650,000.00
Total
$5,400,000.00

Section 4. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with the
County and the Chairman of the Workforce Investment Board of the County to fund the County staff and County
programs in OWA No. 3, payable from the funds or fund that are credited the proceeds of the grant accepted in
this ordinance and in an amount to maintain the proportion of services historically provided to residents of OWA
No. 3 by the City and the County (determined by the average of funding and services data over the previous
four years, as set forth in the attachment to the LOI). The grant agreement shall contain a provision that the
Director of Economic Development may assign the agreement to the RCOG or to another fiscal agent designated
to receive all or any portion of the 2005 Workforce Investment Act grant funds for the delivery of allowable
program services to eligible individuals in OWA No. 3.
Section 5. That, under Chapter 167 of the Revised Code, the Mayor is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the County for the establishment of a RCOG consisting of the City and the County to act as the administrative
entity and fiscal agent under the WIA for OWA No. 3 in accordance with the LOI and the mandate of the
Governor’s Workforce Policy Board.
Section 6. That the Mayor is authorized to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the County Board
of Commissioners to combine the City and County workforce investment boards, service areas, and programs and
maintain and operate a single consolidated program in accordance with the LOI. The agreement shall contain
provision for the temporary loaning of City employees to RCOG and the transfer, lease, or loaning of property
currently used by the City’s workforce investment program and needed for the workforce investment program
administered by the RCOG. Subject always to the requirements of the WIA, including its requirements to provide
universal access to services, and recognizing the provision of services will depend on customer flow and demand
for services, the RCOG and the consolidated workforce investment board shall strive to maintain the proportion
of services historically provided to the residents of the City (determined by the average of funding and services
data over the previous four years, as set forth in the attachment to the LOI).
Section 7. That the Mayor and the Director of Economic Development are authorized to enter to such other
agreements as may be necessary to establish the RCOG, including agreements with a fiscal agent designated by
the State, and provide for a single consolidated workforce investment program in accordance with the LOI and
the provisions of this ordinance.
Section 8. That the contracts and agreements authorized by this ordinance shall be prepared by the Director of
Law and shall contain such additional terms and conditions as are necessary to protect the interests of the City
of Cleveland.
Section 9. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Finance.

954

May 18, 2005
Ord. No. 970-05.
By Council Members Lewis and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel to participate in the Ohio Safety Incentive
Program in order to entitle the City
to a workers’ compensation premium
rebate.
Whereas, the Ohio Bureau of
Workers’ Compensation has notified
the City of Cleveland of its eligibility to participate in the Ohio Safety
Council Incentive Program (“Program”); and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City will enroll in the local Greater
Cleveland Safety Council and receive a 4% one-time workers’ compensation premium rebate; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Personnel, on behalf of the City of
Cleveland, is authorized to take all
necessary steps to join and participate in the Ohio Safety Incentive
Program, including enrolling the
City in the local Greater Cleveland
Safety Council, filing all reports,
and paying the required filing fee,
currently estimated at $6,000, payable from Fund No. 01-040203-623000,
Request No. 107563.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Personnel
and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Committees on Employment,
Affirmative Action and Training,
Finance.
Ord. No. 971-05.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Lewis, Sweeney and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the report of the Board of Revision of Assessments on objections
concerning estimated assessments
with respect to improving Euclid
Avenue between Public Square and
East 70th Street by making specified improvements along the rightof-way; and determining to proceed
with the improvements; and adopting the equalized assessments.
Whereas, the Board of Revision of
Assessments convened pursuant to
Resolution No. ___________, adopted
_____________, to hear and determine
all objections concerning the estimated assessments for improvement
of Euclid Avenue between Public
Square and East 70th Street by
reconstructing or abandoning sidewalk vaults encroaching upon the
public
right-of-way
or
otherwise
improving vaults appurtenant to the
right-of-way in accordance with Resolution No. 2372-04, adopted February 28, 2005, has filed its reports
with this Council as to its determination of such objections; and

The City Record
Whereas, this Council deems said
report proper in all respects; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the report of the
Board of Revision of Assessments
convened pursuant to Resolution No.
__________, adopted ___________, and
contained in File No. __________, is
approved.
Section 2. That the assessments as
equalized by the Board and recommended by it in its report are approved, and the assessments are
directed to be filed in the Office of
the Clerk of this Council.
Section 3. That it is determined to
proceed to improve Euclid Avenue
between Public Square and East
70th Street by reconstructing or
abandoning
sidewalk
vaults
encroaching upon the public right-ofway or otherwise improving vaults
appurtenant to the right-of-way in
accordance with Resolution No. 237204, adopted February 28, 2005, (the
“Resolution of Necessity”).
Section 4. That the Improvements
shall be performed under the provisions of the Resolution of Necessity,
and with the plans, specifications,
and profiles approved and flied in
the office of the Clerk of Council
and in accordance with the estimates as equalized.
Section 5. That the estimated
assessments for the Improvements,
as equalized by the Board of Revision of Assessments, flied in the
office of the Clerk of City Council
are adopted.
Section 6. That it is further determined that the portion of the cost
of the Improvements to be assessed
against benefited property shall be
assessed in the amount, manner
and number of installments as provided for in the Resolution of
Necessity.
Section 7. That no claims for damages resulting from the Improvements have been flied.
Section 8. That the cost of the
Improvements shall be paid, prior to
the collection of assessments, from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 364, 20 SF 373, 20
SF 380, 20 SF 382, 20 SF 394 and 20
SF 500. This Council determines that
the City expects to levy assessments
in 2006 for the Improvements, and
that the City further expects and
intends to use proceeds of the
assessments to reimburse Fund No.
10 SF 400 the moneys expended
under this Ordinance.
Section 9. That the Clerk of this
Council is directed to deliver a certified copy of this ordinance to the
County Auditor within fifteen (15)
days after the passage of this ordinance as required by Section 319.61
of the Revised Code.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

955

23
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 981-05.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 401.34 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1684-76
passed June 29, 1976, relating to the
definition of parking place.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 401.34 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1684-76 passed June
29, 1976, is hereby amended to read
as follows:
Section 401.34 Parking Place
“Parking
place”
means
any
garage or other building or part
thereof, or any premises or parcel of
land in or upon which a business of
storing more than ten motor vehicles in any twenty-four hour period
is conducted for eight months or
more in any calendar year, where
the owner or person storing such
vehicles is charged a fee, including
all lots located in the City storing
motor
vehicles,
including
towed
vehicles, for the Division of Police
or for any private entity, but excluding the rental of private garages
and the all-night storing of vehicles
upon the premises of and in connection with the operation of regularly established gasoline stations.
Section 2. That existing Section
401.34 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1684-76 passed
June 29, 1976, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Legislation, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Public Safety, Legislation,
Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS REFERRED
Res. No. 954-05.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Cintron, Sweeney and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
Carroll Avenue and a portion of
Keene Court.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Carroll Avenue and a portion of Keene Court, as described;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

24
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being all that
portion of Carroll Avenue N.W. (50
feet wide) extending Easterly from
the East line of West 30th Street to
that portion of Carroll Avenue N.W.
vacated in Volume 224, Page 54 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records by
Ordinance No. 2580-78 dated October
16, 1978 and all that portion of
Keene Court S.W. (16 feet wide)
extending Easterly from the East
line of West 29th Street to the West
line of West 28th Street.
Description
approved
by
Greg
Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys
and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Res. No. 969-05.
By Council Members Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution supporting the Board of County Commissioners’ Clean Ohio Revitalization
grant application to the Ohio Department of Development.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the Board of County Commissioners’ Clean Ohio Revitalization
grant application to the Ohio Department of Development which will
assist in the remediation of the land
located in downtown Cleveland at
the mouth of the Cuyahoga River on
Lake Erie for a mixed-use residential/retail neighborhood.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to send copies of this
resolution to the Ohio Department of
Development and to the Board of
County Commissioners of Cuyahoga
County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.

The City Record
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 972-05.
By Council Members Conwell, Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 2, 3 and 5 of Ordinance No.
476-05, passed April 4, 2005, relating
to a contract with Lakeview Square
I, Ltd., to provide development assistance to finance the acquisition of
real property at 11905 Superior Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 2, 3 and 5
of Ordinance No. 476-05, passed April
4, 2005, are amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan shall be according to the terms
set forth in the Summary contained
in File No. 476-05-B, Finance Committee of this Council at the public
hearing on this legislation and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract shall not exceed One Million
Four Hundred Thousand Dollars
($1,400,000), and shall be paid from
Fund No. 17 SF 008, which funds are
appropriated for this purpose, Request No. 103645.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies in Fund No. 17 SF 006.
Section 2. That existing Sections
2, 3 and 5 of Ordinance No. 476-05,
passed April 4, 2005, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 974-05.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Northeast Neighborhood
Development Corporation for the
Community
Partnership
Program
through the use of Ward 10 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Northeast Neighborhood Development Corporation for the Commu-

956

May 18, 2005
nity Partnership Program for the
public purpose of promoting stability and sustainability of Cleveland
neighborhoods through the use of
Ward 10 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $43,500 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 975-05.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with the Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation
for
the
Home
Expo
Program
through the use of Ward 10 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement with the
Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation for the Home Expo
Program for the public purpose of
educating City of Cleveland residents
on various home assistance programs
that are available from local banking
institutions
and
city
programs
through the use of Ward 10 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $5,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

May 18, 2005
Ord. No. 976-05.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an agreement
with Downtown Cleveland Partnership for the “Downtown Digs,” A
Guide to Living in Downtown Cleveland Project through the use of
Ward
13
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Downtown Cleveland Partnership for the “Downtown Digs,” A
Guide to Living in Downtown Cleveland Project for the public purpose
of increasing residential growth
opportunities for City residents in
downtown Cleveland through the
use of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $8,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 978-05.
By Council Members Zone, Cimperman, Gordon, Brady, and Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance amending the Title and Sections 1 and 2
of Ordinance No. 662-05 passed April
11, 2005 as it pertains to the Westside Leadership Collaborative of
Cleveland Program through the use
of Ward 13, 15, 17, 19 and 20 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 66205 passed April 11, 2005 are hereby
amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Tremont West Development Corporation for the Westside
Leadership Collaborative of Cleveland Program through the use of
Wards 13, 15, 17, 19 and 20 Neighborhood Equity Funds.

The City Record
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Tremont West Development
Corporation for the Westside Leadership Collaborative of Cleveland
Program for the public purpose of
providing leadership training to
Cleveland residents in community
building initiatives through the use
of Wards 13, 15, 17, 19 and 20 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $3,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 66205 passed April 11, 2005 are hereby
repealed
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 979-05.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into an
agreement with the East 97th Street
Bulldogs for a Football Youth Program through the use of Ward 7
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into an agreement with the East 97th Street Bulldogs for a Football Youth Program
for the public purpose of providing
organized recreational sports activities for Cleveland youth through
Ward 7 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $2,200 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

957

25
Ord. No. 980-05.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 135.42 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1052-A-80
passed January 12, 1981, relating to
towing,
storage
and
disposition
agreements.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 135.42 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1052-A-80 passed January 12, 1981, is hereby amended to
read as follows:
Section 135.42 Towing, Storage
and Disposition Agreements
The Director of Public Safety
shall not enter into agreements with
any of the following:
tow truck
owners for the towing of motor vehicles; motor vehicle salvage dealers
(as defined in RC 4738.01) or scrap
metal processors (as defined in RC
4737.05) for the towing of abandoned
junk motor vehicles; motor vehicle
storage services for the Division of
Police; and motor vehicle salvage
dealers or scrap metal processing
facilities for the disposition of abandoned motor vehicles and of abandoned junk motor vehicles, without
prior authorizing ordinance of Council.
Section 2. That existing Section
135.42 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1052-A-80 passed
January 12, 1981 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 982-05.
By Council Member Pierce Scott.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 8. (Shaun Drake.)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council
expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to peddling upon public rights
of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 8; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

26
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by, Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances to allow
each
persons
named
below
to
engage in peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 8: Shaun
Drake.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 985-05.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Pubiic Service to issue a permit to
Mt. Zion/McCreary Center to stretch
a banner at East 71st Street for the
period from June 1, 2005 to June 20,
2005,
inclusive,
publicizing
the
church carnival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to Mt. Zion/McCreary
Center to install, maintain and remove a banner at East 71st Street,
for the period from June 1, 2005 to
June 20, 2005, inclusive. Said banner
shall be approved by the Director of
Public Service, in consultation with
the Director of Public Safety, as to
type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any
sign erected and maintained under
the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner
of any pole from which a banner
will be hung must be obtained prior
to issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed
or permitted on said banner and
said
banner
shall
be
removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote
of two-thirds
of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in
force immediately upon its passage
and approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect and be in
force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.

The City Record
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 973-05.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Lewis, Sweeney, and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution fixing
the time and place for hearing
objections to estimated assessments
with respect to improving Euclid
Avenue between Public Square and
East 70th Street, by making specified improvements upon the public
right-of-way.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
2372-04, adopted February 28, 2005,
this Council declared the necessity
of improving Euclid Avenue between Public Square and East 70th
Street by reconstructing or abandoning sidewalk vaults encroaching
upon the public right-of-way, or otherwise
improving
vaults
appurtenant to the right-of-way; and
Whereas, under the above resolution the estimated assessments for
the improvement have been prepared and placed on file in the
office of the Clerk of this Council;
and
Whereas, notice of the passage of
the resolution and of the filing of
the
estimated
assessments
have
been duly served on all property
owners to be assessed in the manner provided by law; and
Whereas, written objection to the
estimated assessments have been
filed by one or more property owners; and
Whereas, Section 148 of the Charter provides for a Board of Revision
of Assessments to hear objections
relating to assessments; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Board of Revision of Assessments shall meet at
11:00 a.m. on Thursday, June 2, 2005,
at the Cleveland Convention Center,
500 Lakeside Avenue, Room 211, to
hear and determine all written
objections filed under the law to the
estimated
assessments
heretofore
filed with the Clerk of Council
under Resolution No. 2372-04, adopted February 28, 2005, by this Council.
Section 2. That upon completion of
the hearing and any adjournments,
the Board of Revision of Assessments shall report its recommendations, including any changes which
should be made in the estimated
assessments, to this Council.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to
notify, by certified mail, each person who has filed timely written
objection to the estimated assessments of the time and place of the
hearing of the Board of Revision of
Assessments.
Section 4. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the

958

May 18, 2005
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 977-05.
By Council Member Cintron.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D1, D2, D3, and D3A Liquor Permit to 5004 Storer Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2,
D3 and D3A Liquor Permit from El
Paraiso, Inc., 5004 Storer Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent
Number 2465601 to Santiago Sanchez
Entertainment Group LLC, 5004 Storer Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
Permanent Number 7709514; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit from El Paraiso,
Inc., 5004 Storer Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44102,
Permanent
Number
2465601 to Santiago Sanchez Entertainment Group LLC, 5004 Storer
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number 7709514; and requests the Director of Liquor Con-

May 18, 2005
trol to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 983-05.
By Council Members Jackson, Cimperman, Westbrook, Brady, Britt,
Zone,
Polensek,
Sweeney,
Coats,
Pierce Scott, Reed, Gordon, Lewis
and Cintron.
An emergency resolution urging
the United States Department of
Defense and the Defense Finance &
Accounting Services office (DFAS)
to retain important federal defense
jobs in Cleveland and supporting
and encouraging the Cleveland Defense Industry Alliance and the
Greater Cleveland Partnership in its
advocacy efforts to preserve the
region’s
economic
vitality
by
encouraging the retention of these
jobs; and further committing Council’s support and assistance to the
Cleveland Defense Industry Alliance
in its efforts to reverse the Defense
Department’s
recommendation
to
close Cleveland’s DFAS office.
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
has as one of its primary responsibilities improving the health and
welfare of the citizens of the City
of Cleveland, which is best accomplished through job creation and
retention of current jobs in the City
of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the Defense Finance &
Accounting Services (DFAS) employs more than 15,000 people at 25
processing centers worldwide distributing $101 billion in FY 2003 and
serving 2,745,000 military and civilian personnel, retirees and annuitants; and
Whereas, the DFAS has operated
in Cleveland in different forms since
1942 and is currently the fourth
largest federal employer in Greater
Cleveland, with a $65 million annual payroll; and
Whereas, the Cleveland DFAS
office has been the world center for
Navy payroll services and personnel
data management since its inception; and
Whereas, the number of DFAS
jobs currently located in downtown
Cleveland is 1,200 with another 300
contractor jobs; and
Whereas, the Cleveland DFAS
office provides jobs that are vital to
the health of the regional workforce
and enriches the ranks of professionals in our City; and

The City Record
Whereas, the loss of these jobs
could cost Greater Cleveland an estimated $128 million, further eroding
our regional and state tax base and
endangering money for vital services,
such as police and fire protection
throughout Northeast Ohio; and
Whereas, Cleveland is one of the
nation’s preeminent financial service centers, home to the headquarters of several large commercial
banks and the regional Federal
Reserve, and perfectly situated for
the work done at the Cleveland
DFAS and should be able to provide
this important service well into the
future; and
Whereas, the United States Department of Defense has recommended to the Base Closure and
Realignment Commission that 1,028
jobs currently performed by the
Cleveland Defense Finance and Accounting Service in the Anthony
Celebrezze Building be relocated to
other cities; and
Whereas the Cleveland Defense
Industry Alliance has announced its
intentions to work with community
partners, including Cleveland City
Council, to fight this recommendation and reverse this decision before
the Base Realignment and Closure
Commission forwards its recommendations to President Bush in September 2005; and.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby urges the United States Department of Defense and the Defense
Finance & Accounting Services office
(DFAS) to retain important federal
defense jobs in Cleveland and supports and encourages the Cleveland
Defense Industry Alliance and the
Greater Cleveland Partnership in its
advocacy efforts to preserve the
region’s economic vitality by encouraging the retention of these jobs.
Section 2. That this Council further commits its support and assistance to the Cleveland Defense
Industry Alliance in its efforts to
reverse the Defense Department’s
recommendation to close Cleveland’s
DFAS office.
Section 3. That the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit copies of
this resolution to President George
W. Bush, Congressional Representatives Tubbs-Jones, Kucinich, LaTourette,
Senators
DeWine
and
Voinovich, the appropriate representatives from the U.S. Department of
Defense and the Base Realignment
and Closure Commission, and the
members of the Cleveland Defense
Industry Alliance.
Section 4. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

959

27
Res. No. 984-05.
By Council Members Conwell and
Coats.
An emergency resolution urging
the Ohio Senate to preserve parent
coverage Medicaid at one hundred
percent (100%) of federal poverty
level and to fully preserve the Disability Medical Assistance program.
Whereas, Medicaid and Disability
Medical
Assistance
are
publicly
funded, publicly accountable health
care programs providing comprehensive services to low income individuals who meet specific categorical requirements; and
Whereas, Medicaid is a state and
federal partnership program and the
State of Ohio receives matching federal dollars for every State of Ohio
dollar expended on Medicaid programs; and
Whereas, Disability Medical Assistance is funded by the State of Ohio;
and
Whereas, cuts to Medicaid and the
proposed elimination of the Disability Medical Assistance program, as
proposed by Governor Taft and
passed by the Ohio House, will eliminate health care coverage for working parents, eliminate physician
care and medications for indigent
Ohioans; and limit access to needed
dental services; and
Whereas, these proposals make
access to medical care more difficult
for the poor; and
Whereas, low income wage earners are unable to afford health
insurance and the proposed cuts to
Medicaid and the elimination of the
Disability Medical Assistance program will result in delayed health
care; and
Whereas,
delayed
health
care
results in increased hospital emergency room visits and increased
medical complications; and
Whereas, the proposed cuts in Medicaid and the elimination of Disability Medical Assistance will significantly impact the lives of people living and working in Cleveland; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the Ohio Senate to preserve parent
coverage Medicaid at one hundred
percent (100%) of the federal poverty level and to fully preserve the
Disability Medical Assistance program.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby requested to transmit
a copy of this resolution to Ohio
Governor Bob Taft and those members of the Ohio Senate representing
residents of the City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

28
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 67-04.
By Council Members Jones, Gordon, Sweeney, Coats, Cimperman
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of grading and
paving, constructing streets, sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbing,
curb ramps, median strips, intersections, utility boxes, casting adjustments, appurtenances, streetscaping,
landscaping, installing water and
sewer mains and connections, installing electrical service and connections, streetlighting, and other
related infrastructure improvements
in conjunction with the East 176th
Street new housing development project; and authorizing the Directors
of Community Development, Public
Service or Public Utilities to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Public Service,
Public Utilities, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Public Service, Public Utilities, City
Planning, Finance; when amended
as follows:
1. In Section 3, line 2, after “Nos.”
insert “14 SF 030, 52 SF 001, 52 SF
002, 52 SF 003,”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 290-05.
By Council Member Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Barber Avenue and
West 20th Street to Israel Colon or
designee.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 716-05.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into agreements with Storefront Renovation
Program applicants, and to enter
into agreements to reimburse eligible administrative costs to community development corporations for
implementation of the Storefront
Renovation Program.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 721-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to provide for the issuance and sale of
Bonds in the maximum principal
amount of $7,180,000 for the purpose
of providing funds for Residential
and Neighborhood Development; and
the issuance of notes in anticipation
of those Bonds.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 722-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to provide for the issuance of unvoted
general obligation Bonds in the
maximum
principal
amount
of
$7,540,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve Public Service
Facilities and the issuance of notes
in anticipation of those Bonds.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 808-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to pay
as Moral Claims the sums opposite
the names of the claimants.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 809-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
contracts of labor and materials necessary to install a mail system, for
the Division of Printing and Reproduction, Department of Finance.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 844-05.
By
Council
Members
Johnson,
Westbrook and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Port Control to enter into an amendment to
the Mather Museum lease with the
Harbor Heritage Society to relocate
the Steamship William G. Museum
from East 9th Street to Dock 32.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Port Control,
Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committees on Public Parks, Property, and Recreation, Aviation and
Transportation; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

960

May 18, 2005
Ord. No. 856-05.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into or amend
contracts with various agencies to
provide housing, commercial, industrial and real estate development
activities.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 859-05.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Gordon, and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with
Wimbledon Investments, LLC to provide economic development assistance to partially finance exterior
leasehold improvements, including
construction, renovation, and site
improvements, and to assist with
architectural and engineering fees
for the property located at 2179
West 11th Street, and all other associated
costs
necessary
for
the
improvements.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Relieved
of Committee on City Planning; Passage recommended by Committees
on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 861-05.
By Council Members Polensek,
Gordon, Cimperman, and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with
Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County
Port
Authority, on behalf of Osborne Capital, Inc., to provide development
assistance to partially finance the
construction of a new Tops Market
grocery store at 18501 Neff Road,
and all other associated costs necessary to redevelop the property;
and authorizing one or more agreements to implement the project.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 5, after “Inc.”
insert “or Neff Road Tops, LLC”.
2. In Section 1, line 2, after “Authority” insert “, on behalf of Osborne Capital, Inc., or Neff Road
Tops, LLC”.
3. In Section 3, line 2, after “Two
Million” insert “Five Hundred Thousand”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

May 18, 2005
Ord. No. 903-05.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services for the Moms First
Program; and authorizing contracts
with various entities to implement
the program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Health and Human
Services; Passage recommended by
Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
LAID ON TABLE
Ord. No. 2116-2000.
By
Council
Members
Patmon,
Melena and Cimperman (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 10003-07 St. Clair
Avenue to Ricky Aikens.
Ord. No. 307-01.
By Council Member White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Miles Family YMCA
for hosting the 5th Annual Gospel
Music Festival in order to carry out
the public purpose of sponsoring a
festival through the use of Ward 2
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Ord. No. 803-01.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with ORCA House for the
replacement of a boiler in order to
carry out the public purpose of
assisting the provision of social services through the use of Ward 6
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Ord. No. 2408-01.
By Council Members Britt, Coats,
Jackson, Johnson, Reed and Mayor
White (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with the Karamu House to provide financial assistance in the form
of a grant in consideration for the
Karamu House establishing and
developing an African American
Cultural Garden.
Ord. No. 1529-02.
By Council Members Lewis, Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contract
with Famicos Foundation, or its
designee, to provide development
loan assistance in the form of a
Community
Development
Block
Grant float loan for Historic Newton
Avenue Apartments.
Ord. No. 1536-02.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 675.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 623-95,
passed June 12, 1995, relating to permit, peddling on private property.

The City Record
Ord. No. 2065-02.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as
part of the Land Reutilization Program and located at 3121 East 93rd
Street to Jamal Hanini and Salti
Salti.
Ord. No. 689-03.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to extend
the lease agreement between the
City of Cleveland and Kamm’s Corners Development Corporation for
the operation of a public parking lot
in the Kamm’s Corners area.
Ord. No. 2438-03.
By Council Members Johnson, Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an amendment
to Contract No. 59699 with Second
Growth Institute, and authorizing
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties to acquire certain
real property in consideration of the
amendment.
Ord. No. 714-05.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into one or
more contracts with Cleveland Housing Network, or its designee, for the
acquisition, rehabilitation or construction
of
low-income
housing
units.
Without objection, Ordinance Nos.
2116-2000, 307-01, 803-01, 2408-01, 152902, 1536-02, 2065-02, 689-03, 2438-03
and 714-05 were relieved of further
consideration of all committees and
laid on the table pursuant to the
Rules of Council.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0.
Ordinance Nos. 2116-2000, 307-01,
803-01, 2408-01, 1529-02, 1536-02, 206502, 689-03, 2438-03 and 714-05 Tabled.

MOTION
By Council Member Gordon, seconded by Council Member Rybka
and unanimously carried that the
absence of Council Member Michael
A. Dolan, be and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:46 p.m. to meet on Monday, May 23,
2005 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chambers.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council

961

29
THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
its final passage at the next council meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL
May 11, 2005
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, May 11, 2005,
at 10:30 a.m. with Mayor Campbell
presiding.
Present: Mayor Campbell, Directors Beasley, Baker, Ciaccia, Acting
Director E. Williams, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Directors
Pettus, Thompson, Directors Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and J.
Williams.
Absent: None.
Others: Jim Hardy, Commissioner,
Purchases and Supplies.
Collette Appolito, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 230-05.
By Director Baker.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under authority of Ordinance
No. 239-04, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland on April 26,
2004, the firm of Maximus, Inc. is
selected, upon the nomination of the
Director of Finance, as the firm of
consultants available to be employed by contract to update the
indirect cost allocation plan, according to guidelines provided in the
Federal Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) Cost Principles, Circular
A-87,
including
allocation
methodologies and final Indirect
Cost Rates for allowable cost of services
the
City
provides
under
grants, contracts, Enterprise Funds,
and other agreements with non-profit organizations.
Be it further resolved, that the
Director of Finance is authorized to
enter into a written contract with
Maximus, Inc., based upon its January 11, 2005 proposal, provided that
the compensation to Maximus, Inc.
for the services authorized shall not
exceed $71,700.00, that the Director
of Law shall prepare the contract
authorized and shall include such
other provisions as she considers
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Beasley,
Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director E. Williams, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Directors
Pettus, Thompson, Directors Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and J.
Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 231-05.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Terrace Construction
Company, Inc. for the public improvement of cleaning and cement
mortar lining of distribution mainsarea 2005-A (including a $289,617.90
contingency allowance), (all items),

The City Record

30
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, received on
March 30, 2005, under the authority
of Ordinance No. 2293-04, passed January 31, 2005, upon a unit basis for
the improvement in the aggregate
amount of Three Million One Hundred Eighty-Five Thousand Seven
Hundred
Ninety-Six
Dollars
and
Ninety Cents ($3,185,796.90), is affirmed and approved as the lowest
responsible bid; and the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter
into
a
contract
for
the
improvement with said bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by Terrace Construction Company, Inc. for
the above-mentioned public improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR
Rockport Construction
& Materials, Inc.

PERCENTAGE
WORK
5.02%
$160,000.00

Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Beasley,
Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director E. Williams, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Directors
Pettus, Thompson, Directors Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and J.
Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 232-05.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Utilicon Corp. for an estimated quantity of labor and materials to repair water mains-area west
(all items) for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of one year,
received on the 7th day of April,
2005, under the authority of Ordinance No. 2292-04, passed January
31, 2005, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
Two Million One Hundred FortyFive Thousand Four Hundred Fourteen and 00/100 Dollars ($2,145,414.00),
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for such
commodities, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 159389
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Five
Hundred Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($500,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Utilicon Corp for the contract authorized is hereby approved:

SUBCONTRACTOR

May 18, 2005

PERCENTAGE
WORK

Dan Ray Construction
Co. (MBE)

5.95%
$127,600.00

McTech Corp/DBA Tech
Ready Mix (MBE)
Elite Contracting &
Construction Company
(FBE)

2.98%
$ 63,900.00

4.96%
$106,500.00

Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Beasley,
Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director E. Williams, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Directors
Pettus, Thompson, Directors Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and J.
Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 233-05.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Utilicon Corp. for the
public improvement of cleaning and
cement mortar lining of distribution
mains-area
2005-B
(including
a
$280,407.00 contingency allowance),
(all items), for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, received on March 30, 2005,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
2293-04, passed January 31, 2005,
upon a unit basis for the improvement in the aggregate amount of
Three Million Eighty-Four Thousand Four Hundred Seventy-Seven
Dollars ($3,084,477.00), is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
a contract for the improvement with
said bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Utilicon Corp. for the above-mentioned public improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

PERCENTAGE
WORK

Dan Ray Construction
Co. (MBE)

McTech Corp./DBA Tech
Ready Mix (MBE)

The Collinwood Shale
Brick & Supply Company

Elite Contracting &
Construction Company
(FBE)

6.00%
$185,200.00

2.00%
$61,750.00

1.00%
$30,900.00

4.00%
$123,500.00

Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Beasley,
Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director E. Williams, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Directors
Pettus, Thompson, Directors Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and J.
Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

962

Resolution No. 234-05.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Hertz Equipment Rental
Corporation for an estimated quantity of asphalt rollers and trailers,
for the various divisions of City
government, for the period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
February 23, 2005, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1481-04, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on October 11, 2004, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Fifteen Thousand
Two Hundred Seventy and 00/100
Dollars ($15,270.00) (Net-30), is affirmed and approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Public Service is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services, which shall
provide for the immediate purchase
as the initial amount of the contract
of the following:
Requisition No. 154131
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Fifteen
Thousand Two Hundred Seventy
and 00/100 Dollars ($15,270.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Beasley,
Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director E. Williams, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Directors
Pettus, Thompson, Directors Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and J.
Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 235-05.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that the bid of O. E. Meyer Co. for
an estimated quantity of plasma
cutters, for the various divisions of
City government, for the period of
one (1) year beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,
received on February 23, 2005,
under the authority of Ordinance
No. 1481-04, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland on October
11, 2004, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount
to Sixteen Thousand Two Hundred
Fifty
and
00/100
Dollars
($16,250.00) (Net-30), is affirmed
and approved as the lowest and
best bid, and the Director of Public Service is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services, which shall
provide for the immediate purchase
as the initial amount of the contract of the following:
Requisition No. 154125
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of Sixteen Thousand Two Hundred Fifty and 00/100
Dollars ($16,250.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.

May 18, 2005
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Beasley,
Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director E. Williams, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Directors
Pettus, Thompson, Directors Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and J.
Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 236-05.
By Director Carroll.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of KONE Inc. for an estimated
quantity of labor and materials to
maintain and repair elevators (all
items), for the Division of Health,
Department of Public Health, for the
period of twenty-four (24) months,
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on the
14th day of April, 2005 pursuant to
the authority of Ordinance No. 166804, passed November 22, 2004, which
on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to Thirty Three
Thousand, Six Hundred and 00/100
Dollars ($33,600.00), is hereby affirmed and approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Public Health is hereby requested to
enter into requirement contract for
such commodities, which shall provide for the immediate purchase as
the initial amount of such contract
of the following:
Requisition No. 133167
Labor and materials to maintain and
repair elevators.
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Sixteen
Thousand,
Eight
Hundred
and
00/100 Dollars ($16,800.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Beasley,
Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director E. Williams, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Directors
Pettus, Thompson, Directors Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and J.
Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 237-05.
By Director Watson.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all
bids received on March 23, 2005, for
cab/chassis with air/light unit body,
for the Division of Fire, under the
authority of Ordinance No. 1086-04,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on August 11, 2004, are
rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Beasley,
Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director E. Williams, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Directors
Pettus, Thompson, Directors Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and J.
Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 238-05.
By Director Ronayne.
Whereas, by Resolution No. 356-96,
adopted May 29, 1996, as amended by
Resolution No. 35-99, adopted January 26, 1999, Resolution No. 117-03,
adopted on February 26, 2003, and
Resolution No. 47-04, adopted February 11, 2004, under the authority of
Section 133.14(a) of the Codified

The City Record
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
this Board of Control established
rental rates for the Cleveland Public Auditorium and Convention Center, its various rooms and halls and
portions thereof; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland, in
conjunction with Project Love, will
be presenting “The Power of One...
an evening with Coach Carter” on
May 19, 2005; and
Whereas, Project Love is a national character education organization that empowers teens to promote
kindness
through
positive
role
modeling, service projects and principled leadership; and
Whereas, Ken Carter, who was
the subject of the recent movie
“Coach Carter”, speaks about accountability, integrity, team work
and leadership; and
Whereas, “The Power of One... an
evening with Coach Carter” is open
to the public free of charge; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
not withstanding the terms of Resolution No. 356-96, adopted May 29,
1996, as amended by Resolution No.
35-99, adopted January 26, 1999, Resolution No. 117-03, adopted on February 26, 2003, and Resolution No. 4704, adopted February 11, 2004, the
use of the space at the Cleveland
Convention Center for “The Power
of One... an evening with Coach
Carter”, to be held May 19, 2005,
shall be provided at no charge.
Be it further resolved that any
labor, materials and equipment supplied to “The Power of One... an
evening with Coach Carter” by the
Cleveland Convention Center shall
be charged at the prevailing rate,
and that all other provisions of the
Resolution No. 117-03 not expressly
amended, shall remain unchanged
and in full force and effect.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Beasley,
Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director E. Williams, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Directors
Pettus, Thompson, Directors Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and J.
Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 239-05.
By Director Ronayne.
Whereas, by Resolution No. 356-96,
adopted May 29, 1996, as amended by
Resolution No. 35-99, adopted January 26, 1999, Resolution No. 117-03,
adopted on February 26, 2003, and
Resolution No. 47-04, adopted February 11, 2004, under the authority of
Section 133.14(a) of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
this Board of Control established
rental rates for the Cleveland Public Auditorium and Convention Center, its various rooms and halls and
portions thereof; and
Whereas, every ten years the Federal Government has a White House
Conference on aging in Washington
DC to formulate the country’s agenda on aging for the next decade;
and
Whereas, communities throughout
the country hold Pre-White House
Conference on Aging to gain the
input of local seniors on the needs
and issues facing our elder population; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
Department of Aging is hosting the
Pre-White
House
Conference
on
Aging to be held on June 6, 2005;
and

963

31
Whereas, the Pre-White House
Conference on Aging is open to the
public free of charge; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
not withstanding the terms of Resolution No. 356-96, adopted May 29,
1996, as amended by Resolution No.
35-99, adopted January 26, 1999, Resolution No. 117-03, adopted on February 26, 2003, and Resolution No. 4704, adopted February 11, 2004, the
use of the space at the Cleveland
Convention Center for the Pre-White
House Conference on Aging to be
held on June 6, 2005, shall be provided at no charge.
Be it further resolved that any
labor, materials and equipment supplied to the Pre-White House Conference on Aging by the Cleveland
Convention Center shall be charged
to the Department of Aging at the
prevailing rate, and that all other
provisions of the Resolution No. 11703 not expressly amended, shall
remain unchanged and in full force
and effect.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Beasley,
Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director E. Williams, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Directors
Pettus, Thompson, Directors Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and J.
Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 240-05.
By Director Ronayne.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that all bids received on September
23, 2004 for HVAC/R materials and
equipment for the Division of Property Management, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
pursuant to authority of Ordinance
No. 1116-02, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland on June 17,
2002 be and the same are hereby
rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Beasley,
Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director E. Williams, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Directors
Pettus, Thompson, Directors Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and J.
Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 241-05.
By Director Ronayne.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of The Whitmer Company for an
estimated quantity of Pool Chemicals (all items) for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, for the
period one (1) year beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on the 21st day of April
2005, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 471-05, passed March
28, 2005, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
Ninety-Two Thousand Thirty-Nine
and 40/100 Dollars ($92,039.40), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase, as the initial amount
of the contract of the following:
Requisition No. 136997
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of FiftyNine
Thousand
Four
Hundred
Eighty-Nine
and
40/100
Dollars
($59,489.40).

32
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirements for such commodities
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Beasley,
Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director E. Williams, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Directors
Pettus, Thompson, Directors Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and J.
Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 242-05.
By Director Ronayne.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Tom Paige Catering Co. for an
estimated quantity of meals for the
2005 Summer Food Program (all
items) for the Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, for the period
three (3) months, beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on 21st day of April 2005,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
2245-04, passed December 13, 2004,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to One Hundred
Twenty-Six
Thousand
Five
Hundred Fifty-Two and 80/100 Dollars ($126,552.80), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties is hereby requested to enter into a requirement
contract
for
such
commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase, as the initial amount
of the contract, of the following:
Requisition No. 136996
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of One
Hundred Twenty-Six Thousand Five
Hundred Fifty-Two and 80/100 Dollars ($126,552.80).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirements for such commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Beasley,
Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director E. Williams, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Directors
Pettus, Thompson, Directors Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and J.
Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 243-05.
By Director Ronayne.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Hillcrest Food Service for an estimated quantity of food, food products, beverages, condiments and
paper products at Camp Forbes (Bid
I: 1 - 20) (Bid II: 21 - 177), for the
Division of Recreation, Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties,
for the period one (1) year beginning with the date of execution of
a contract, received on the 21st day
of April 2005, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 2245-04,
passed December 13, 2004, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Eighty Five Thousand Six Hundred Eighty and 42/100
Dollars ($85,680.42), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties is requested to

The City Record
enter into requirement contract for
such commodities, which shall provide for the immediate purchase, as
the initial amount of the contract, of
the following:
Requisition No. 136995
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Five Thousand and 00/100 Dollars
($25,000.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirements for such commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Beasley,
Baker,
Ciaccia,
Acting
Director E. Williams, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Directors
Pettus, Thompson, Directors Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and J.
Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2005
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 05-81: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #24 (Ward 13)
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar
Properties,
co-owners
c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to
construct one of twenty-four attached single family dwelling units
and a garage in a Multi-Family District, situated on acreage located
north of Superior Avenue between
East 45th and East 47th Streets,
south of St. Clair Avenue; contrary

964

May 18, 2005
to the minimum requirements for
Area and Yard Regulations of Section 337.031(g), proposed is a 5'
instead of a 7' interior side yard; a
14' front yard, as opposed to 20' and
an 18.77' rear yard depth, contrary
to 20' and individual access to parking premises must be provided
according to Section 349.04 of the
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-82: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #12
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar
Properties,
co-owners
c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to
construct one of twenty-four attached single family dwelling units
and a garage in a Multi-Family District, situated on acreage located
north of Superior Avenue between
East 45th and East 47th Street,
south of St. Clair Avenue; contrary
to the minimum requirements for
Area and Yard Regulations, proposed is an approximate 14' instead
of a 20' front yard and an 18.82'
rear yard as opposed to the 20'
required by Section 337.031(g) of the
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-83: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #13
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to construct one of twenty-four attached
single family dwelling units and a
garage in a Multi-Family District,
situated on acreage located north of
Superior Avenue between East 45th
and East 47th Street, south of St.
Clair Avenue; contrary to the minimum requirements for Area and
Yard Regulations, proposed is a 6'
instead of a 7' side street yard; with
an approximate 14' as opposed to a
20' front yard and an 18.79' rear
yard depth contrary to the 20'
required by Section 337.031(g) of the
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-84: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #14
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to construct one of twenty-four attached
single family dwelling units and a
garage in a Multi-Family District,
situated on acreage located north of
Superior Avenue between East 45th
and East 47th Streets, south of St.
Clair Avenue; contrary to the minimum requirements for Area and
Yard
Regulations
of
Section
337.031(g), proposed is an approximate 14' instead of a 20' front yard
with an 18.79' rear yard depth as
opposed to 20' and individual access
to parking premises must be provided according to Section 349.04 of
the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-85: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #15
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to construct one of twenty-four attached
single family dwelling units and a
garage in a Multi-Family District,
situated on acreage located north of
Superior Avenue between East 45th
and East 47th Street, south of St.
Clair Avenue; contrary to the minimum requirements for Area and
Yard
Regulations
of
Section
337.031(g), proposed is a 5' instead
of a 7' interior side yard; an approximate 14' front yard as opposed to
20' with an 18.79' rear yard depth
contrary
to
20'
and
individual
access to parking premises must be
provided according to Section 349.04
of the Codified Ordinances.

May 18, 2005
Calendar No. 05-86: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #16
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar Properties, owner c/o Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to construct one of twenty-four attached
single family dwelling units and a
garage in a Multi-Family District,
situated on acreage located north of
Superior Avenue between East 45th
and East 47th Street, south of St.
Clair Avenue; contrary to the minimum requirements for Area and
Yard Regulations, proposed is a 6'
instead of a 7' side street yard
depth; an approximate 14' front
yard as opposed to 20' with an
18.84' rear yard contrary to 20' required under Section 337.031(g) of
the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-87: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #17
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar
Properties,
co-owners
c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to
construct one of twenty-four attached single family dwelling units
and a garage in a Multi-Family District, situated on acreage located
north of Superior Avenue between
East 45th and East 47th Street,
south of St. Clair Avenue; contrary
to the minimum requirements for
Area and Yard Regulations, proposed is a 5' instead of a 7' interior side yard and 10' as opposed to
a 20' front yard, as required under
Section 337.031(g) of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-88: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #18
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to construct one of twenty-four attached
single family dwelling units and a
garage in a Multi-Family District,
situated on acreage located north of
Superior Avenue between East 45th
and East 47th Street, south of St.
Clair Avenue; contrary to the minimum requirements for Area and
Yard Regulations, proposed is a 5'
instead of a 7' interior side yard;
with a 10' front yard as opposed to
the
20'
required
by
Section
337.031(g) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-89: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #19
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar
Properties,
co-owners
c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to
construct one of twenty-four attached single family dwelling units
and a garage in a Multi-Family District, situated on acreage located
north of Superior Avenue between
East 45th and East 47th Street,
south of St. Clair Avenue; contrary
to the minimum requirements for
Area and Yard Regulations, proposed is a 5' instead of a 7' interior side yard; with a 10' as opposed
to a 20' front yard and an approximate rear yard of 12.27' contrary to
the
20'
requirement
in
Section
337.031(g) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-90: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #20
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar
Properties,
co-owners
c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to
construct one of twenty-four attached single family dwelling units
and a garage in a Multi-Family District, situated on acreage located
north of Superior Avenue between
East 45th and East 47th Streets,
south of St. Clair Avenue; contrary

The City Record

33

to the minimum requirements for
Area and Yard Regulations, proposed is a 10' instead of a 20' front
yard depth, as required according to
Section 337.031(g) of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-91: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #21
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar
Properties,
co-owners
c/o
Matthew Solomon agent, appeal to
construct one of twenty-four attached single family dwelling units
and a garage in a Multi-Family District, situated on acreage located
north of Superior Avenue between
East 45th and East 47th Street,
south of St. Clair Avenue; contrary
to the minimum requirements for
Area and Yard Regulations, proposed is a 5' instead of a 7' interior side yard; with a front yard of
10' as opposed to the required 20'
according to Section 337.031(g) of
the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-92: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #22
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar
Properties,
co-owners
c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to
construct one of twenty-four attached single family dwelling units
and a garage in a Multi-Family District, situated on acreage located
north of Superior Avenue between
East 45th and East 47th Street,
south of St. Clair Avenue; contrary
to the minimum requirements for
Area and Yard Regulations, proposed is an approximate 14' instead
of a 20' front yard; with an 18.78'
rear yard as opposed to the required
20' according to Section 337.031(g)
of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-93: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #23
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar
Properties,
co-owners
c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to
construct one of twenty-four attached single family dwelling units
and a garage in a Multi-Family District, situated on acreage located
north of Superior Avenue between
East 45th and East 47th Streets,
south of St. Clair Avenue; contrary
to the minimum requirements for
Area and Yard Regulations of Section
337.031(g),
proposed
is
an
approximate 14' instead of a 20'
front yard with an 18.77' rear yard
depth instead of 20' and individual
access to parking premises must be
provided according to Section 349.04
of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-94: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #1
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar Properties, co-owner c/o Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to construct one of twenty-four attached
single family dwelling units and a
garage in a Multi-Family District,
situated on acreage located north of
Superior Avenue between East 45th
and East 47th Street, south of St.
Clair Avenue; contrary to the minimum requirements for Area and
Yard
Regulations
of
Section
337.031(g), proposed is a 5' instead
of a 7' interior side yard; an approximate 14' front yard as opposed to
20' with an 18.84' rear yard depth
contrary
to
20'
and
individual
access to parking premises must be
provided according to Section 349.04
of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-95: 1415 East
Street – Unit #2
Cleveland Housing Network
Rysar Properties, co-owners c/o
thew Solomon, agent, appeal to

965

45th
and
Matcon-

struct one of twenty-four single family dwelling units and a garage in
a Multi-Family District, situated on
acreage located north of Superior
Avenue between East 45th and East
47th Streets, south of St. Clair
Avenue; contrary to the minimum
requirements for Area and Yard
Regulations of Section 337.031(g),
proposed is an approximate 14'
instead of a 20' front yard with an
18.84' rear yard depth as opposed to
20' and individual access to parking
premises must be provided according to Section 349.04of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-96: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #3
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to construct one of twenty-four attached
single family dwelling units and a
garage in a Multi-Family District,
situated on acreage located north of
Superior Avenue between East 45th
and East 47th Street, south of St.
Clair Avenue; contrary to the minimum requirements for Area and
Yard Regulations, proposed is a 6'
instead of a 7' side yard; with an
approximate 14' as opposed to a 20'
front yard depth and an 18.84' rear
yard contrary to 20' required by Section 337.031(g) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-97: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #4
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar
Properties,
co-owners
c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to
construct one of twenty-four attached single family dwelling units
and a garage in a Multi-Family District, situated on acreage located
north of Superior Avenue between
East 45th and East 47th Street,
south of St. Clair Avenue; contrary
to the minimum requirements for
Area and Yard Regulations, proposed is a 5' instead of the 7' side
yard depth and a 10' as opposed to
a 20' front yard required according
to Section 337.031(g) of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-98: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #5
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar
Properties,
co-owners
c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to
construct one of twenty-four attached single family dwelling units
and a garage in a Multi-Family District, situated on acreage located
north of Superior Avenue between
East 45th and East 47th Streets,
south of St. Clair Avenue; contrary
to the minimum requirements for
Area and Yard Regulations, a 10'
front yard depth is proposed and 20'
is required according to Section
337.031(j)
of
the
Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-99: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #6
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar
Properties,
co-owners
c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to
construct one of twenty-four attached single family dwelling units
and a garage in a Multi-Family District, situated on acreage located
north of Superior Avenue between
East 45th and East 47th Street,
south of St. Clair Avenue; contrary
to the minimum requirements for
Area and Yard Regulations, proposed is a 5' instead of a 7' interior side yard with a 10' as opposed
to a 20' front yard depth as required
under Section 337.031(g) of the Codified Ordinances.

34
Calendar No. 05-100: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #7
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar
Properties,
co-owners
c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to
construct one of twenty-four attached single family dwelling units
and a garage in a Multi-Family District, situated on acreage located
north of Superior Avenue between
East 45th and East 47th Street,
south of St. Clair Avenue; contrary
to the minimum requirements for
Area and Yard Regulations, proposed is a 5' instead of a 7' interior side yard; with a 10' as opposed
to a 20' front yard depth, as stated
in Section 337.031(g) of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-101: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #8
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar
Properties,
co-owners
c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to
construct one of twenty-four attached single family dwelling units
and a garage in a Multi-Family District, situated on acreage located
north of Superior Avenue between
East 45th and East 47th Street,
south of St. Clair Avenue; contrary
to the minimum requirements for
Area and Yard Regulations, proposed is a 10' instead of a 20' front
yard depth with a 15.62' rear yard
depth as opposed to the required 20'
as stated in Section 337.031(g) of the
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-102: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #9
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar
Properties,
co-owners
c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to
construct one of twenty-four attached single family dwelling units
and a garage in a Multi-Family District, situated on acreage located
north of Superior Avenue between
East 45th and East 47th Street,
south of St. Clair Avenue; contrary
to the minimum requirements for
Area and Yard Regulations, proposed is a 5' instead of a 7' interior side yard; with an approximate
17' front yard as opposed to 20' and
a ear yard depth of 15.62' contrary
to
20'
as
required
in
Section
337.031(g) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-103: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #10
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar
Properties,
co-owners
c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to
construct one of twenty-four attached single family dwelling units
and a garage in a Multi-Family District, situated on acreage located
north of Superior Avenue between
East 45th and East 47th Street,
south of St. Clair Avenue; contrary
to the minimum requirements for
Area and Yard Regulations of Section 337.031(g), proposed is a 5'
instead of a 7' interior side yard; an
approximate
14'
front
yard
as
opposed to 20' with an 18.83' rear
yard depth contrary to 20' and individual access to parking premises
must be provided according to Section 349.04 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-104: 1415 East 45th
Street – Unit #11
Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar
Properties,
co-owners
c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeal to
construct one of twenty-four attached single family dwelling units
and a garage in a Multi-Family District, situated on acreage located

The City Record
north of Superior Avenue between
East 45th and East 47th Streets,
south of St. Clair Avenue; contrary
to the minimum requirements for
Area and Yard Regulations of Section 337.031(g), proposed is an approximate 14' instead of a 20' front
yard with an 18.82' rear yard depth
instead of 20' and individual access
to parking premises must be provided according to Section 349.04 of
the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-107: 7925 Spafford
Road (Ward 12)
Gwendolyn Goins, owner, appeals
to erect a 21' x 20' one-story frame,
reverse gable garage to the rear of
an existing two-story, frame dwelling, situated on a 35' x 85' lot in
a B1 Two-Family District on the
east side of Spafford Road at 7925
Spafford Road; as proposed the
accessory garage is a distance of 5'
from a main building on the adjoining lot and a minimum of 10' is
required in Section 353.05 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-109: 11815 Moulton
Avenue (Ward 9)
Cleveland Municipal School District, owner, and Lester Cumberlander, agent, appeal to erect a twostory addition to the north of the
existing
Mary
McLeod
Bethune
Kindergarten through Eighth Grade
Elementary School building, situated on an irregular shaped 21' x 205'
lot in a B1 Two-Family District on
the north side of Moulton Avenue at
11815 Moulton Avenue; subject to the
limitations of Section 337.03, the
addition is adjacent to a Two-Family District and by reference, as regulated in a One-Family District, a
school is required to be 30' from any
adjoining premises in a residence
district not used for a similar purpose and Section 359.01 requires
Board of Zoning Appeals approval
for the expansion of a nonconforming use.
Calendar No. 05-110: 2115 Tate Avenue (Ward 16)
Paul Batt, owner, appeals to erect
a 15' x 20' wolmanized wooden carport at the east side of an existing
two-story frame dwelling, situated
on a 40' x 112' lot in a B1 TwoFamily District on the south side of
Tate Avenue at 2115 Tate Avenue;
contrary to Section 357.09(2)(B), the
total interior side yards equal 3.2'
and 10' is required; and a 3' distance is provided instead of 10'
from a main building on an adjoining
lot,
contrary
to
Section
357.09(2)(A) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-111: 10305 Pierpont
Avenue (Ward 8)
Cresthaven Development Incorporated, owner, appeals to erect a 25'
x 26' two-story frame, single family
dwelling on a 40' x 110' lot in an
A1 One-Family District on the north
side of Pierpont Avenue at 10305
Pierpont Avenue; contrary to Regulations for Yards and Courts, a 36'
distance is provided and 40' is
required to conform with alignment
to the existing building line, according to Section 357.06(a) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-120: 1151 Main Avenue (Ward 13)
Flats Development Incorporated
and Dona Votaw, agent, appeal to
erect and maintain an 82' x 248'
tent for charity events from June
2005 to September 12, 2005, proposed

966

May 18, 2005
to be situated on acreage in a General Retail Business District on the
south side of Main Avenue at 1151
Main Avenue; subject to the limitations of Section 347.10(a), the requested duration exceeds the allowable thirty days duration for a temporary use permit.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MAY 16, 2005
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, May 16,
2005, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 05-17: 1545 Dexter
Place
Urban Properties LLC appealed to
erect 14 townhouse units in 2 buildings with 9 attached units along
Dexter Place and 5 attached units
along West 28th Street in a TwoFamily District.
Calendar No. 05-77: 3400 St. Clair
Avenue
The Hong Kong Trading Center
appealed to expand an existing
restaurant with the addition of a
tavern and nightclub in a General
Industry District.
Calendar No. 05-106: 2086 West 19th
Street
Martin McBride Niagra Homes appealed to erect a two-story addition
to an existing single family dwelling in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 05-108: 8912 Morris Avenue
Cleveland Municipal School District appealed to construct a twostory Kindergarten through Eighth
Grade educational facility in a TwoFamily District.
The following appeals were Dismissed:
Calendar No. 05-78: 4300 Whitman
Avenue
Larry Brichacek appealed to erect
a single family dwelling with an
attached garage in a Two-Family
District.
Calendar No. 05-79: 1082 East 105th
Street
Maher Ali appealed to expand a
nonconforming use by adding construction of a gas station to a grocery store in Local Retail Business
and Two-Family Districts.
Calendar No. 05-105: 4098 Lee Road
Gary Thomas appealed to repair
50% fire damage and change from
auto storage to auto repair the use
of a fire damaged building in a General Retail Business District.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 03-35: 6402 Lansing
Avenue postponed to June 6, 2005.
Calendar No. 05-41: 3596 East 131st
Street postponed to June 6, 2005.
In Executive Session on May 16,
2005, the following appeals heard by
the Board on May 9, 2005 were
adopted and approved.

The City Record

May 18, 2005
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 05-76: 6712-18 Bayliss
Avenue
Victor Bondar appealed to install
a 4' high chain link fence across
the front and along the front yard
setback of a 91' x 87' lot in a MultiFamily District.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 05-54: 10004-6 Adams
Avenue
Elaine and Terrence McKellar appealed to change from a two family residence to an adult care home
in a Two-Family District.
The following
missed:

appeal

was

Dis-

Calendar No. 05-75: Appeal of Sarossy Tibor
Sarossy Tibor appealed under Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland from the revocation of
a City of Cleveland Hack License.
The following appeal heard by the
Board on May 2, 2005 was adopted
and approved on May 16, 2005:
Calendar No. 05-69: 2061 West 10th
Street
Bosan’s Restaurant appealed to
expand an existing restaurant with
an outdoor patio addition in a MultiFamily District; with conditions.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Monday, June 6, 2005
9:00 A.M.

Townhouse District and a ‘1’ Height
District (Map Change No. 2150, Sheet
No. 6).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
JOSEPH C. CIMPERMAN,
Chairman
Committee on City Planning
May 18, 2005 and May 25, 2005

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the
Office
of
Equal
Opportunity
(“OEO”) prior to the date of bid
opening or submission of proposals
or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business
enterprise code or with representations made on these forms may
result in cancellation of the contract
or other civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, MAY 25, 2005

Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the Council Committee on City Planning will
hold a public hearing in the Mercedes Cotner Committee Room 217,
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on Monday, June 6, 2005, at 9:00 a.m., to consider the following ordinance now
pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 784-05.
By Council Member Rybka.
An ordinance changing the zoning
of properties located on the west
side of East 55th Street between
Blanche Ave. and Mound Ave. and
on the East side of East 49th Street
from a General Industry District
and a ‘3’ Height District to an RA2

Bump Taylor Football Field Site
Improvements, for the Division of
Research, Planning & Development, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, as authorized by Ordinance No. 278-05,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, March 21, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2005 AT
10:00 A.M., BURKE LAKEFRONT

967

35
AIRPORT, 2ND FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM, 1501 NORTH MARGINAL ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44114.
May 11, 2005 and May 18, 2005
THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2005
Lee Road Rehabilitation/Mill & Fill
Project, for the Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 828-05,
pending.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2005 AT
10:00 A.M., ROOM #518, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
May 11, 2005 and May 18, 2005
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 1, 2005
Kerruish Park Site Improvements,
for the Division of Research, Planning & Development, Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 2151-03, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, December 15, 2003.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2005 AT
10:00 A.M., BURKE LAKEFRONT
AIRPORT, 2ND FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM, 1501 NORTH MARGINAL
ROAD,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
May 18, 2005 and May 25, 2005
THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2005
Labor and Materials Necessary to
Maintain
or
Repair
Overhead
Doors, for the Various Divisions
of City Government, Department
of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 552-05, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
April 11, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2005 AT
10:30 A.M., CITY HALL, CONFERENCE ROOM 104, 601 LAKESIDE
AVE., CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
May 18, 2005 and May 25, 2005
FRIDAY, JUNE 3, 2005
Electronic Protection, for the Various Divisions of City Government,
Department of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 634-05,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, May 2, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2005 AT
10:00 A.M., CITY HALL, CONFERENCE ROOM 104, 601 LAKESIDE
AVE., CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
May 18, 2005 and May 25, 2005

The City Record

36
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 8, 2005
Construction Taxiways, Ramps, and
Runway
Improvements-(Runway
10-28 Safety Improvements Phase
1-Part A), for the Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Department of Port Control, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 2376-02, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, March 10,
2003.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
TWO
HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($200.00) IN THE FORM OF A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
AND/OR
MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING THURSDAY,
MAY 26, 2005 AT 10:00 A.M.,
CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S
CENTRAL ENGINEERING BUILDING,
19501
FIVE
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.
May 18, 2005 and May 25, 2005
THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2005
Cudell Clock Tower Renovations
(Phase 2), for the Division of
Architecture, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2151-03, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 15, 2003.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY, JUNE 3, 2005 AT 10:30
A.M., CONFERENCE ROOM 517,
601 LAKESIDE AVE., CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Repair and/or Replace Plumbing,
Water, Sewer and Gas Lines for
Buildings and Property Owned by
CPP, for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2289-04, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
January 24, 2004.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
FRIDAY,
JUNE 3, 2005 AT 11:00 A.M., 1300
LAKESIDE AVE., CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.
May 18, 2005 and May 25, 2005
FRIDAY, JUNE 17, 2005
Meters and Metering Equipment, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1630-92, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, September 21, 1992.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING THURSDAY,
JUNE 9, 2005 AT 2:00 P.M., 1300
LAKESIDE AVE., CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.

THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.
May 18, 2005 and May 25, 2005
THURSDAY, JUNE 23, 2005
Streetlighting
Materials,
for
the
Division
of
Cleveland
Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1630-92, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, January
21, 1992.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 8, 2005 AT 11:00 A.M.,
1300 LAKESIDE AVE., CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.
May 18, 2005 and May 25, 2005

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 913-05.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit at 3232 Lakeside
Avenue and repealing Resolution
No. 2131-04, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to Flextron, LLC, DBA Gotcha Inn,
3232 Lakeside Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44114, Permanent No. 2779680,
by Resolution No. 2131-04 adopted by
the Council on November 8, 2004; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to Flextron, LLC, DBA Gotcha Inn,
3232 Lakeside Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
2779680 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 213104, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

968

May 18, 2005
Res. No. 914-05.
By Council Member Dolan.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit to
14053 Lorain Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1, C2
and D6 Liquor Permit from 14053
Lorain Avenue, Inc., DBA Rite Shop
Food Mart, 14053 Lorain Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
Number 6549242 to R & M Cairo,
LLC, DBA Rite Shop, 14053 Lorain
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number 7149478; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1, C2 and D6
Liquor Permit from 14053 Lorain
Avenue, Inc., DBA Rite Shop Food
Mart, 14053 Lorain Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number
6549242 to R & M Cairo, LLC, DBA
Rite Shop, 14053 Lorain Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
Number 7149478 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

May 18, 2005
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Res. No. 915-05.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 14510
Kinsman Avenue, and repealing
Resolution No. 1348-04, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 14510
Kinsman Avenue by Resolution No.
1348-04 adopted by the Council on
July 14, 2004; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to 14510,
Inc., DBA Kinsman Sunoco, 14510
Kinsman Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44120, Permanent Number 6549670 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1348-04, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Res. No. 921-05.
By Council Members Jackson and
Westbrook.
An emergency resolution urging
the Federal Bureau of Investigation
and the Federal Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco and Firearms to investigate
the accessibility of guns by young
people in the City of Cleveland and
to enforce existing gun laws to the
fullest extent.
Whereas, this Council is concerned about the increase in gun
violence and gun related homicides
among young people in the City of
Cleveland, and;
Whereas,
firearms
are
easily
accessible to children in the United
States, for example, 47% of high
school students said they could
obtain a gun if they wanted to,
while 22% of middle school students
said they could get a firearm; and
Whereas, 6% of high school students said they had carried a gun
in the last 30 days; and
Whereas, in 72% of unintentional
deaths and injuries, suicide and suicide attempts with a firearm of 0-19
year olds, the firearm was stored in
the residence of the victim, a relative or a friend; and

The City Record

37

Whereas, 40% of American households with children have guns and
34% of children in the U.S live in
homes with at least one firearm; and
Whereas, there have been incidents recently in this City involving
children
using
firearms
against
other children; and
Whereas, in the past year, this
City has mourned the deaths of children and young adults who have
been killed by a child or young
adult using a firearm; and
Whereas, this Council is very concerned about the easy access to
firearms in the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby urges the Federal Bureau of
Investigation
and
the
Federal
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms to investigate the accessibility of guns by young people in
the City of Cleveland and to enforce
existing gun laws to the fullest
extent.
Section 2. That the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit copies of
this resolution to Robert S. Mueller,
III, Director, Federal Bureau of
Investigation and Carl Truscott,
Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 9, 2005.
Effective May 13, 2005.

Whereas, if a person is convicted
of a felony, the record may be
expunged after three years after the
final discharge of the case; and
Whereas, reform of Ohio’s expungement
laws
should
include
allowing all cases to be expugnable
after 10 years of clean conduct and
positive community living, with the
exception of murder and sexual
offenses; and
Whereas, reforming Ohio’s expungement laws would allow individuals who have fulfilled their punishments under the law to again be
a productive part of the local community and broader society; and
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby urges the State legislature to
pass Expungement Reform Legislation. and supports the National
Restoration Movement, U.S.A., Inc.,
in its efforts to obtain such reform
in Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit copies of
this resolution to all members of the
State legislature, to Governor Bob
Taft, and to Reverend Mark C. Olds,
President of the National Restoration Movement, U.S.A., Inc.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Res. No. 924-05.
By Council Members Coats, Jackson, Gordon, Britt, Westbrook, Sweeney and Zone.
An emergency resolution urging
the State legislature to pass Expungement Reform Legislation and
supporting the National Restoration
Movement, U.S.A., Inc., in its efforts
to obtain such reform in Ohio.
Whereas, Ohio’s current expungement laws do not allow individuals
who have paid their debt to society
to become productive members of
the community, because such laws
prohibit or prevent the individuals
from obtaining meaningful employment, sometimes for 10 or more
years; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has a very high unemployment rate
and many of those that are unemployed have been previously convicted of crimes, thus preventing
them from finding good paying jobs;
and
Whereas, in Ohio, a person convicted of a misdemeanor or felony
crime can be prohibited from getting employment, decent housing,
and even student loans; and
Whereas, the state of Ohio’s current law allows only a first offense
to be expunged, with a few exceptions; and
Whereas, currently in Ohio, if a
person is convicted of a misdemeanor, he may apply to have his
record expunged after one year of
the final discharge of the case; and

Res. No. 925-05.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution encouraging the United States Senate to
support bi-partisan S. 9 and oppose
Workforce Investment Act Plus.
Whereas,
the
local
Workforce
Investment Act program is an integral part of local economic development; and
Whereas, in 2004, the local Workforce Investment Act assisted over
5,000 individuals and businesses;
and
Whereas, in 1998, important relationships were established between
the federal government, state governments, local governments, and
the public and private sectors in
establishing the Workforce Investment Act program; and
Whereas, the United States Senate
is currently considering legislation
to reauthorize the Workforce Investment Act; and
Whereas, passage of S. 9, introduced on January 24, 2005, will
result in positive changes in the
United States workforce investment
system and build upon progress
already made by the Workforce
Investment Act program; and
Whereas, the Local Workforce
Coalition, comprised of the National
Association of Counties, the National
Association
of
Workforce
Boards, the National Workforce Association, and the U.S. Conference of
Mayors, urges passage of bi-partisan
S.9; and

969

38
Whereas, the Department of Labor
is proposing a Workforce Investment Act Plus Consolidated Grant
Program (“WIA Plus”); and
Whereas,
under
this
proposal,
states would have complete authority to design their workforce investment act program and could
choose to eliminate local workforce
investment boards; and
Whereas, such authority is contrary to the governance relationships negotiated and agreed upon
when establishing the Workforce
Investment Act in 1998; and
Whereas, this Council is concerned about the detrimental impact
of WIA Plus on local workforce systems in the greater Cleveland, Ohio
region; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
encourages the United States Senate
to support bi-partisan S. 9 and
oppose Workforce Investment Act
Plus.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this resolution to United States Senator
George
Voinovich,
United
States Senator Michael DeWine, United States Senator Michael Enzi, United States Senator Bill Frist, and
United
States
Senator
Edward
Kennedy.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Res. No. 926-05.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Zone, Kelley, Brady and Sweeney.
An emergency resolution opposing
the proposed cuts in funding to
Bridgeway’s Playhouse program, an
Alcohol and Drug Addiction Prevention
Program
for
Children
and
Youth and urging the Alcohol and
Drug Addiction Services Board of
Cuyahoga County to reinstate such
funds for this worthwhile program.
Whereas, Bridgeway is a mental
health agency that provides counseling, treatment, crisis intervention
and assisted living services for
those struggling with severe mental
illnesses, or drug and alcohol addiction; and
Whereas, the Playhouse is a program of Bridgeway that serves over
400 children and youth per year
through alcohol and drug awareness
classes taught in Cleveland schools;
and
Whereas, the Playhouse program
reaches an additional 400 youth in
its after school program, which
includes drama, dance, sports and
field trips; and
Whereas, 468 children have participated in the Playhouse after
school activities in the last 9 months
alone; and
Whereas, the Playhouse program
has kept youth off the streets and
away from drugs, alcohol and street
violence for the last 15 years; and

The City Record
Whereas, programs run by the
Playhouse cost less than $250 per
youth per year; and
Whereas, the Alcohol and Drug
Addiction Services Board of Cuyahoga County has suddenly decided
to cut funding for Brigeway’s Playhouse program; and
Whereas, the proposed cuts in
funding will shut down the Playhouse program, putting an end to
the Playhouse as a safe haven for
Cleveland
youth
and
effectively
putting more than 400 children and
youth back on the streets, significantly increasing the chances that
they will become involved in drug
and/or alcohol abuse, gang related
activity and other risky or illegal
behavior; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
opposes the proposed cuts in funding
to Bridgeway’s Playhouse program,
an Alcohol and Drug Addiction Prevention Program for Children and
Youth and urges the Alcohol and
Drug Addiction Services Board of
Cuyahoga County to reinstate such
funds for this worthwhile program.
Section 2. That the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit copies of
this resolution to all members of the
Alcohol and Drug Addiction Services
Board of Cuyahoga County, to David
J. Lundeen, President and CEO of
Bridgeway and to Cuyahoga County
Commissioners Lawson Jones, Dimora and Hagan.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Res. No. 927-05.
By Council Members Zone, Britt,
Brady, Westbrook, Sweeney, Jackson,
Gordon,
Cimperman,
Lewis,
White and Coats.
An emergency resolution opposing
tax and expenditure limitation proposals, whether by constitutional
amendment or other means and supporting the principle of representative democracy as the best route to
sound state and local public policy.
Whereas, various elected officials,
organizations and individuals are
endorsing proposals to amend the
Ohio Constitution to institute constitutionally mandated Tax Expenditure Limitations (TEL) at the
state and local levels of government
; and
Whereas, one such proposal is
commonly known as “Taxpayers Bill
of Rights (TABOR)”; or Tax Expenditure Limitation (TEL) and
Whereas, those states that have
instituted proposals similar to the
Tax Expenditure Limitations’ Law,
such as Colorado, now face severe
problems in meeting the basic needs
by reducing expenditures for K-12
education
support,
reduction
of
spending
for
higher
education,
reduction of expenditures for immunizations and pre-natal care, for its

970

May 18, 2005
citizenry and are seeking to override
constitutionally
mandated
spending restrictions; and
Whereas,
such
TEL
proposals
would severely limit fiscal management options of elected state and
local leaders in times of crisis and
other unpredictable circumstances,
putting state and local governments
on “auto pilot” and circumventing
thoughtful and deliberative consideration of policy decisions; and
Whereas,
such
TEL
proposals
could override state constitutional
provisions requiring certain expenditures to support education and the
use of gas taxes; and
Whereas, such TEL proposals in
Ohio would reduce funding for education, health care, police, fire protection, social services and economic development; by limiting annual
aggregate state expenditures increases from the previous years
expenditures by the sum of the rate
of inflation and the rate of population change, or 3.5 percent; and
Whereas,
such
TEL
proposals
would prevent local officials from
changing priorities and subvert the
ability of legislators to set tax policy they were elected to make by
allowing for mandated expenditure
responses as required by the TEL
proposal; and
Whereas, such TEL proposals will
require the state expenditures to be
increasingly allocated as matching
funds for federal programs as a
result of mandated expenditure limitations for state supported programs; and
Whereas, TABOR and other tax
and expenditure limitation (TEL)
legislation bring great harm to local
communities
through
continued
reductions in state funding, erode
decision-making at the local level
and the ability to provide the basic
services residents and businesses
expect and deserve; and
Whereas, such proposals would
force the state and local governments to spend valuable time and
money asking for permission from
the same people who elected them
before any action can be taken on
important issues, and would also
force taxpayers to pay twice for
governance – once for elections of
their state and local officials and
again for elections to make the
decisions those officials should have
already made; and
Whereas, this Council believes
that state and local elected officials
are elected to do a job, which is to
represent the interests of their constituents, to deal with difficult decisions, and to thoughtfully debate
and determine the best course of
action for the state or the community in which they serve; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby opposes tax and expenditure limitation proposals, whether by constitutional
amendment
or
other
means and supports the principle of
representative democracy as the
best route to sound public policy.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to Robert
Taft, Governor, Ken Blackwell, Secretary of State, Jon Husted, Speaker, Ohio House of Representatives,
Bill Harris, President, Ohio Senate,
C.J. Prentiss Minority Leader, Ohio

May 18, 2005
Senate,
Chris
Redfern,
Minority
Leader, Ohio Senate, to all members
of the state legislature representing
Cuyahoga County, and Susan Cave,
Executive Director, Ohio Municipal
League.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Res. No. 929-05.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution urging
the federal government to intervene
to protect to automobile industry in
the United States
Whereas, this Council believes
that the economy in Ohio, as in the
United States, is near collapse, with
thousands of jobs lost daily in all
areas of industry, including the
automobile, machine and steel industries; and
Whereas, certain stop-gap measures should be adopted and implemented by Congress to forestall the
presently
threatened,
irreparable
damage to our nation’s physical
economy, which is typified by the
presently accelerating crisis in the
U.S. automobile industry; and
Whereas,
the
U.S.
automobile
industry is $475 billion dollars in
debt, and its bond rating has been
recently lowered to junk bond status, making filing for bankruptcy
by the leading automobile manufacturers a very real possibility; and
Whereas, it is conceivable that the
automobile industry’s leading manufacturers could close most, if not all
its factories in the United States,
including in Ohio; and
Whereas, the closing down of even
some of the automobile factories,
including the shut down of machine
tool production, would mean both the
end of the United States as a leading physical economic power and
cause chain reaction damage to the
world economy; and
Whereas, the U.S. Congress has
the capability to intervene on behalf
of the automobile industry to ensure
that the continued employment of
that industry’s labor force remains
functioning in each and every present locality of employment; and
Whereas, this Council believes
that the U.S. Congress can and must
intervene, on behalf of national and
related interests, to ensure that the
productive potential of the automobile industry, with its featured high
technology and machine tool capability, be held together in place and
intact; and
Whereas, the impact of such Congressional intervention on the City
of Cleveland will be thousands of
new jobs repairing infrastructure,
maintenance of automobile production jobs, restoration of the tax base
and ultimately, an increase in the
standard of living in the City; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That this Council hereby urges the federal government to
intervene to protect to automobile
industry in the United States.
Section 2. That the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit copies of
this resolution to all members of the
U.S. Congress and to President
George W. Bush.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 356-05.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials to perform miscellaneous
building maintenance services, for
the various divisions of the Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a two-year period of
the necessary items of labor and
materials to perform miscellaneous
building maintenance services, in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the various divisions of the
Department of Public Utilities. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 153291)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

971

39
Ord. No. 357-05.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement
contracts
of
labor,
materials, and equipment necessary
to trim trees for clearance around
electrical wires and streetlights, for
the
Division
of
Public
Power,
Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a one-year period of
the necessary items of labor, materials, and equipment necessary to
trim trees for clearance around electrical wires and streetlights, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 153290)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 358-05.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of paper products necessary for billing, for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter

40
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a one year period of
the necessary items of paper products necessary for billing, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 153292)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 411-05.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to test and
refurbish
existing
unit
process
equipment and chemical feeding
equipment, including appurtenances,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a one or two year
period of the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
test and refurbish existing unit
process equipment and chemical
feeding equipment, including appurtenances,
in
the
approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period

The City Record

May 18, 2005

less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Public Utilities is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with a term of two years
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Public Utilities by
comparing the bids received for both
terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 149021)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

ever, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with
federal or regulatory entities necessary and to pay or reimburse directly related costs incurred by such
entities for the purpose of making
the improvement.
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60
SF 104, 60 SF 105, 60 SF 106, and
from any funds or subfunds to
which are credited any federal
grants or federal PFC authorization
for the above project and the proceeds from the sale of any airport
revenue bonds issued for a purpose
which includes the above project,
Request No. 129214.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 11, 2005.

Ord. No. 462-05.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
runway configurations at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport; and
authorizing the Director of Port
Control to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for
the making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
constructing runway configurations
at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, including but not limited to
uncoupling Runway 6R-24L from
Runway 10-28 and extending Runway 6R-24L from 9,000 to 11,250 feet,
constructing associated taxiways,
relocating and installing navigational aids, converting Runway 6C24C to a taxiway, and constructing
and installing necessary appurtenances, for the Department of Port
Control, by one or more contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders after competitive
bidding on a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That, provided the City
receives federal grants, federal PFC
authorization, or sells airport revenue bonds that includes this project, the Director of Port Control is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts for the making of the public improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the improvement, provided, how-

Ord. No. 465-05.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
the Centralized Deicing Facility
Common Use Pad, Deicing Pad 4,
and all associated appurtenances;
and authorizing the Director of Port
Control to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for
the making of the improvement; and
authorizing the Director of Port
Control to employ one or more professional consultants to manage
spent deicing fluid and enter into
management agreements with third
party operators selected by the airlines.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
constructing the Centralized Deicing
Facility Common Use Pad, Deicing
Pad 4, and all associated appurtenances, for the Department of Port
Control, by one or more contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders after competitive
bidding on a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That, provided the City
receives federal grants, federal PFC
authorization, or sells airport revenue bonds that includes this project, the Director of Port Control is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts for the making of the public improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the improvement, provided, how-

972

May 18, 2005
ever, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 3. That, provided the City
receives federal grants, federal PFC
authorization, or sells airport revenue bonds that includes this project, the Director of Port Control is
authorized to employ by contract or
contracts one or more environmental
consultants or one or more firms of
environmental consultants for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to sample, analyze,
collect, recycle and dispose of spent
deicing fluid for a period not to
exceed three (3) years.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Port Control for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be
paid for the services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 4. That, provided the City
receives federal grants, federal PFC
authorization, or sells airport revenue bonds that include this project,
the Director of Port Control is
authorized to enter into a management agreement or similar type
agreement with those third party
operators as selected from time to
time by the airlines to provide deicing type services at the airport.
Section 5. That the cost of the
improvement and professional services authorized shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60
SF 105, 60 SF 106, and from any
funds or subfunds to which are credited any federal grants or federal
PFC authorization for the above project and the proceeds from the sale
of any airport revenue bonds issued
for a purpose which includes the
above project, Request No. 129210.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 11, 2005.

Ord. No. 581-05.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Public Safety for the Project Safe Neighborhood, Ballistics Identification System.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
amount of $18,468, from the Ohio
Department of Public Safety to conduct the Project Safe Neighborhood,
Ballistics Identification System; that
the Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the application for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the application for
the grant, File No. 581-05-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, is approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
if the extension does not involve an
increase in the dollar amount of the
grant specified above.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 591-05.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Moulton Avenue to
Cleveland Municipal School District.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 120-10-109,
120-10-110, 120-10-111 and 120-10-112,
as more fully described below, to
Cleveland Municipal School District.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 120-10-109 and 120-10-110
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublots
Nos. 44 and 45 in H.C. Ford’s Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 387 and 388, as
shown by the recorded plat in Vol-

973

41
ume 14 of Maps, Page 47 of Cuyahoga County Records, and together
forming a parcel of land 80 feet
front on the Southerly side of Moulton Avenue, N.E., and extending
back of equal width 125 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
P. P. No. 120-10-111
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
43 in H.O. Ford’s Allotment of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
Nos. 387 and 388, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 14 of Maps,
Page
47
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Southerly side of Moulton Avenue, N.E., and extending back of
equal width 125 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
P. P. No. 120-10-112
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
42 in H.C. Ford’s Allotment of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 387 and 388 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 14 of Maps,
Page
47
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, being 40 feet front on the
Southerly side of Moulton Avenue,
N.E., and extending back of equal
width 125 feet deep, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

42
Ord. No. 631-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to
accept a gift from Akoura Biometrics of a fingerprint protection system to protect sensitive information
and programs on laptops, desktops,
and servers for a limited number of
users, including technical support
and training.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to accept a
gift of a fingerprint protection system to protect sensitive information
and programs on laptops, desktops,
and servers for a limited number of
users, including technical support
and training, from Akoura Biometrics, valued at $50,000, based on
their March 5, 2005 letter placed in
File No. 631-05-A.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
an agreement for a term not to
exceed two years with Akoura Biometrics to effectuate the gift and
the agreement shall include, but not
be limited to, terms that provide
warranties to the City and indemnification of the City for infringement
and other potential claims. Any
agreement entered into under the
authority of this ordinance shall be
placed in the legislative file.
Section 3. That the gift shall take
effect on the effective date of the
agreement described in Section 2.
Section 4. That within one year
after the passage of this ordinance,
the Director of Finance shall report
to this Council on the merits of the
Akoura Biometrics system being
provided to the City under the
authority of this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 642-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to employ one or more professional consultants to assess the City’s budget
requirements, recommend a comprehensive budget program, design the
accepted recommendations, acquire
the program, installation and implementation, and for training, support,
and maintenance for a period of two
years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of sup-

The City Record
plementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to assess the City’s budget requirements and recommend a comprehensive budget program.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to design the accepted recommendations, acquire the program, installation and implementation, and for
training, support, and maintenance
of the program for a period of two
years.
Section 3. The selection of the consultants for the services shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination
of
the
Director
of
Finance from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Finance for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract
or
contracts
authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Finance, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 4. That the cost of contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 11 SF 006,
Request No. 146222.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 643-05.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to repair and
maintain combination sewer and
catch
basin
cleaners,
including
appurtenances, for the Division of
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, for a twoyear period.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for a two-year period
of the necessary items of labor and
materials necessary to repair and
maintain combination sewer and
catch
basin
cleaners,
including
appurtenances, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Divi-

974

May 18, 2005
sion of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 150043)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 644-05.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to repair and
maintain vac-all trucks, for the Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
two-year period.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a two-year period of
the necessary items of labor and
materials necessary to repair and
maintain
vac-all
trucks,
in
the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public
Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later pur-

May 18, 2005
chases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 150054)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 653-05.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development
Block Grant funds for expenses for
the Demolition and Board-up Programs; and authorizing the Director
of Building and Housing to enter
into one or more contracts with various agencies to implement these
programs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of One Million Eight Hundred
Thirty
Thousand
Dollars
($1,830,000) from Fund No. 14 SF 031,
Request No. 125790, are appropriated
for costs of the Department of Building and Housing associated with
conducting
the
Demolition
and
Board-up
Programs
incurred
in
Fund 13 following the appropriate
federal regulations in conjunction
with the Community Development
Block Grant Program.
Section 2. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to enter into one or more contracts
with various non-profit and for-profit agencies, and entities providing
services necessary to implement the
Demolition and Board-up Programs.
That any contract entered into
under this ordinance, shall not
include the demolition of Madonna
Hall located at East 72nd and
Chester.
Section 3. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the
Director of Building and Housing
and the Director of Community
Development shall enter into a memorandum of understanding for this
program.
Section 4. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to accept monies in repayment
under the program and to utilize the
repayments
and
other
program
income in a revolving fund for making additional expenditures under
this program, and the funds are
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes,
naming the City of Cleveland as
payee, and mortgages, naming the
City of Cleveland as mortgagee, and
any other security instrument executed to evidence and secure repayment of fees under the City’s Demolition and Board-up Programs.
Section 6. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to enter into forbearance agreements with any recipient of a valid-

The City Record
ly existing loan, administered by
the City under the City’s Demolition
and Board-up Programs.
Section 7. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to collect from persons or entities
from whom the City is collecting
demolition costs an amount equal to
any amount spent for services related to collection of demolition cost,
such as title searches, credit bureau
reports, and document filing fees.
Any
funds
collected
shall
be
deposited into Fund No. 14.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 709-05.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development
Block Grant funds for expenses for
the Fair Housing Program; and
authorizing the Director of Community Relations to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies to implement this program.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 30, from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of One Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($100,000) from Fund No. 14
SF 031, Request No. 125797, are appropriated for costs of the Department of Community Relations incurred in Fund 13 following the appropriate federal regulations associated with conducting the Fair Housing Program in conjunction with the
Community Development Block Grant
Program.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Relations is authorized
to enter into one or more contracts
with various non-profit and forprofit agencies providing services
necessary to implement the Fair
Housing Program.
Section 3. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the
Director of Community Relations
and the Director of Community
Development shall enter into a memorandum of understanding for this
program.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

975

43
Ord. No. 711-05.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development
Block Grant funds for anti-predatory lending and foreclosure prevention assistance; and authorizing the
Director of Consumer Affairs to
enter into one or more contracts
with various entities to provide
assistance to City residents.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of Three Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($300,000) are appropriated
for anti-predatory lending and foreclosure prevention assistance programs.
Section 2. That the Director of
Consumer Affairs is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with various organizations to provide counseling, training, marketing, program evaluation and other
services required for anti-predatory
lending and foreclosure prevention
assistance.
Section 3. That the aggregate cost
of the contracts shall not exceed
$300,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 14 SF 236, Request No.
125796.
Section 4. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the
Directors of Consumer Affairs and
Community Development shall enter
into a memorandum of understanding for this program.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 713-05.
By Council Members Zone, Gordon
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contract
with Gordon Square Homes, L.P., or
its designee, to provide financial
assistance in the form of a Community Development Block Grant Float
Loan to partially finance the acquisition and development of the Gordon Square Homes apartment project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a Community
Development
Block
Grant
Float
Loan
Agreement
with
Gordon
Square Homes, L.P., or its designee,
to provide financial assistance to
partially finance the acquisition and
development of the Gordon Square
Homes apartment project.

44
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan shall be determined by the
Director of Community Development
in accordance with Federal regulations, State and local laws, and the
director is authorized to amend the
terms, from time to time, as the
director deems necessary to remain
consistent with the laws and regulations.
Section 3. That the aggregate cost
of the agreement shall not exceed
Four Million Dollars ($4,000,000) and
shall be paid from Fund No. 14 SF
810, Request No. 149506.
Section 4. That the Director of
Community Development shall obtain an irrevocable, unconditional
letter of credit to secure repayment
of the loan.
Section 5. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept collateral as the
director deems adequate in order to
secure repayment of the loan. Any
and all security instrument agreements or other agreements shall be
prepared and approved by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies in Fund No. 14.
Section 7. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under federal regulations and expend the fees to cover
costs incurred in the preparation of
the loan application, closing, and
servicing of the loan.
Section 8. That the Director of
Law is authorized to prepare the
contract and any other documents as
may be appropriate to complete the
transactions.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 715-05.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contracts
with one or more non-profit agencies
to operate a community garden program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into contracts with
one or more non-profit agencies to
operate a community gardening program.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall not exceed
$110,000.00, and shall be paid from
Fund No. 14 SF 031 Request No.
125795.

The City Record
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 720-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing
for the issuance and sale of Bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$6,380,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve Municipal
Parks and Recreation facilities; and
the issuance of notes in anticipation
of those Bonds.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Six Million Three Hundred Eighty Thousand
Dollars
($6,380,000)
(the
“Bonds”) to finance the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is twenty (20)
years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance of unvoted general obligations of the City, with the specific
terms of each series of bonds to be
contained in ordinances authorizing
their issuance (the “Series Bond
Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to pay the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1 that are urgently needed for
the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Six Million Three Hundred
Eighty Thousand Dollars ($6,380,000)
for the purpose of providing funds
to improve municipal parks and
recreation facilities by constructing,
reconstructing, rehabilitating, installing, renovating, enlarging and otherwise improving parks and recreation centers and areas, pools, skating
rinks,
greenhouses,
bicycle

976

May 18, 2005
paths, playgrounds, playfields, tracks,
fields and related buildings, structures,
walkways,
pavement
and
facilities, and providing necessary
water systems, drainage, lighting,
signage, fixtures, furnishings, equipment, safety modifications and site
improvements, together with all preliminary associated research, planning and development and all necessary and incidental appurtenances
in all cases, including the acquisition of any required real estate and
interests in real estate and the
demolition of any existing buildings,
structures,
walkways
and
facilities, and to pay any capitalized
interest and all expenses incurred in
connection with the issuance of the
securities, including all financing
costs within the meaning of Section
133.01(K) of the Revised Code and
such other costs of the foregoing
permanent improvements that may
be financed with the proceeds of
securities as permitted by Section
133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised Code
and as otherwise permitted by law;
and to authorize the issuance of
notes in anticipation of the Bonds.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance in the principal amount
and for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated “Parks and Recreation Facilities
Improvement
Bonds,
Series
2005.” The Bonds shall be issued in
one lot as fully registered Bonds in
denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
June 1, 2005, or such other date, but
in no event later than December 31,
2005, specified in the certificate of
award providing for the final terms
of the Bonds and the sale of the
Bonds signed by the Director of
Finance in accordance with this
Ordinance
(the
“Certificate
of
Award”). The Bonds shall bear
interest at the rate or rates per year
specified
in
the
Certificate
of
Award; provided that if all the
Bonds bear interest at the same rate
per year, then such rate shall not
exceed seven percent (7%) per year,
and if the Bonds bear interest at
more than one rate per year, then
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed seven percent (7%) per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable, until the principal amount
is paid, semi-annually on June 1 and
December 1 of each year or on the
days specified in the Certificate of
Award as the dates on which interest on the Bonds shall be payable
(the
“Interest
Payment
Dates”),
beginning December 1, 2005 or on
such other Interest Payment Date
specified in the Certificate of Award
as the first Interest Payment Date.
The Bonds shall mature on December 1 in no more than twenty (20)
substantially equal annual installments, beginning December 1, 2006,
or according to the schedule set
forth in the Certificate of Award,
provided that (i) each principal pay-

May 18, 2005
ment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, (ii) the first principal
payment on the Bonds shall be no
earlier than June 1, 2006 and no
later than December 1, 2006, (iii) the
final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than twenty (20)
years from that date which is
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount
thereof
shall
be
payable in annual installments such
that the total principal and interest
payments on the Bonds in any fiscal year in which principal is
payable is not more than three times
the amount of those payments in
any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the “Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a) Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be

The City Record
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole or in
part on any date, in integral multiples
of
$5,000,
at
the
optional
redemption dates and at the redemption prices (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount
redeemed) specified in the Certificate of Award, plus, in each case,
accrued interest to the redemption
date, provided the first optional
redemption date shall not be later
than December 1, 2015 and the highest redemption price shall not be
greater than 102%. The Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that it is in the
best interests of the City for the
Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar, given upon the direction
of the Council of the City by passage of an ordinance. That notice
shall specify the redemption date
and the principal amount of each
maturity of Bonds to be redeemed,
and shall be given at least forty-five
(45) days prior to the redemption
date or such shorter period as shall
be acceptable to the Registrar.
There shall be deposited with the
Registrar on or prior to the redemption date funds sufficient to redeem
at the redemption price all of the
redeemable Bonds for which notice
of redemption has been given.
Partial Redemption. If fewer than
all of the outstanding Bonds are
called for redemption at one time,
they shall be called in the order of
maturities directed by the Director
of Finance. If fewer than all Bonds
of a single maturity are to be

977

45
redeemed, the selection of Bonds to
be redeemed, or portions thereof in
amounts of $5,000 or any integral
multiple thereof, shall be made by
the Registrar by lot in a manner
determined by the Registrar. In the
case of a partial redemption of
Bonds by lot when Bonds of denominations greater than $5,000 are then
outstanding, each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as
though it were a separate Bond of
the denomination of $5,000. If it is
determined that one or more, but not
all of the $5,000 units of principal
amount represented by a Bond are
to be called for redemption, then
upon notice of redemption of a
$5,000 unit or units, the registered
owner of that Bond shall surrender
the Bond to the Registrar (i) for
payment of the redemption price of
the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(d) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption, to the registered
owner of each Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close
of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing and to any
municipal bond insurance company
that has issued a policy insuring
some or all of the Bonds. Failure to
receive notice by mail or any defect
in that notice regarding any Bond,
however, shall not affect the validity
of
the
proceedings
for
the
redemption of any Bond.
(e) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph, the Bonds and portions
thereof called for redemption shall
become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption of all of the Bonds and portions
thereof to be redeemed, including
interest accrued to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail, then from and after the
redemption date those Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall cease to bear interest and
no longer shall be considered to be
outstanding. If that money shall not
be so available on the redemption
date, or that notice shall not have
been deposited in the mail, those

46
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners and shall be
paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those
Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying agent. Principal shall be payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
date provided in the Agreement
authorized in Section 3 (the “Record
Date”). Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond
Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are
held by a Depository in a book entry
system (as described in Section 3),
debt charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance, except for the third paragraph of Section 13(a) (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 (pertaining generally to the periods during which the City is not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), will not
apply to the Bonds. Except for those
provisions, the General Bond Ordinance is included as a part of this
Ordinance as fully as if restated in
this Ordinance. Words and terms not
otherwise defined in this Ordinance
shall have the same meaning as set
forth in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor and by the City’s Director of Finance or Acting Director of
Finance; provided, however, that in
accordance with Section 9.96 of the
Code and the foregoing requirement
that each Bond bear the manual signature of an authorized officer of
the Trustee, either or both of the
signatures of the City’s Mayor or
Acting Mayor or of its Director of
Finance
or
Acting
Director
of
Finance may be a facsimile. The
Bonds shall bear the seal of the
City, which seal may be a facsimile
seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the

The City Record
City’s Charter, the Director of Law
or Acting Director of Law shall prepare the Bonds and shall endorse
thereon his or her approval of the
form and correctness thereof by his
or her manual or facsimile signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Registrar”); provided
that the Escrow Agent shall also act
as paying agent for the Bonds so
long as the Bonds are held in a book
entry
system.
The
Director
of
Finance shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
the Registrar Agreement among the
City, the Registrar and the Escrow
Agent (the “Agreement”) in substantially the form as is now on file
with the Clerk of Council in File No.
720-05-A.
The
Agreement
is
approved, together with any changes
or amendments that are not inconsistent with this ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance and the Director of
Law on behalf of the City, all of
which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Agreement or amendments to the Agreement. The Director of Finance shall
provide for the payment of the services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant
to the Agreement from the proceeds
of the Bonds to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). Subject to the provisions of
Section 5, the person in whose name
a Bond is registered on the Bond
Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unma-

978

May 18, 2005
tured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the

May 18, 2005
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to SBKBrooks
Investment
Corp.,
Apex
Pryor Securities, Loop Capital Markets, LLC, M.R. Beal & Company,
Seibert Brandford Shank & Co., LLC
(collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance, the written advice
of either Government Capital Management, LLC or Columbia Equity
Financial Corporation or both (the
“Financial Advisor”), and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase
the Bonds, including: the principal
amount of the Bonds, final purchase
price (which shall be not less than
97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of
delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal installments are payable (at
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Bonds (if different from those set
forth in Section 2) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance
to be set forth in that Certificate. As
permitted under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each of
them is, authorized and directed to

The City Record
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest
of the City to establish the terms
and requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, and procedure, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser,
to
give
all
appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the
Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments
and
to
take
such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Bonds. The Director of Finance is
authorized and directed to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement (the “Bond Purchase Agreement”), approved as to
form and correctness by the Director of Law, between the City and
the Original Purchaser setting forth
the terms and conditions on which
the City agrees to sell the Bonds
and the Original Purchaser agrees
to buy the Bonds on terms consistent with this Ordinance. The Bond
Purchase Agreement is approved
substantially in the form now on the
file with the Clerk of Council in the
File referenced in Section 3, together with any changes or amendments
that are not inconsistent with this
Ordinance
and
not
substantially
adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
and the Director of Law on behalf
of the City, all of which shall be
conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Bond Purchase Agreement or amendments to the Bond
Purchase Agreement. It is determined that the terms of the Bonds,
as provided in this Ordinance and as
may be provided in or pursuant to
the Certificate of Award, are in the
best interest of the City and in compliance with all legal requirements.
If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document in the form of an Official
Statement is appropriate or necessary in connection with the original
issuance of the Bonds, he is authorized to prepare or cause to be prepared on behalf of the City an Official Statement and any necessary
supplements and to authorize the
use and distribution of that Official
Statement and any supplements. He
is authorized to sign on behalf of
the City and in his official capacity, that Official Statement and any
supplements approved by such officer. He is authorized to sign and
deliver, on behalf of the City and in
his official capacity, such certificates in connection with the accuracy of the Official Statement and
any supplements as may, in his
judgment, be necessary or appropriate. He is also authorized to determine and certify on behalf of the
City that such disclosure document
is “deemed final” by the City within the meaning of Securities and
Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12
(the “SEC Rule”). The Director of
Finance is authorized to contract for
services for the production and distribution of preliminary and final
official statements, including by
printed and electronic means.

979

47
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Bonds, the City agrees, in
accordance with, and as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Bonds under, the SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to prepare, or cause to be prepared,
and to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Bonds in accordance with the
SEC Rule. The performance of that
Agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual appropriation to meet costs the
City would be required to incur to
perform it.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the Financial
Advisor and legal counsel.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 2005A”
or such other designation as may be
set forth in the Certificate of Award.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes, a direct
tax annually during the period the
Bonds
are
outstanding,
in
an
amount sufficient to provide for the
payment of that interest, when and
as the same shall fall due, and also
to discharge the principal of the
Bonds at maturity, which tax shall
not be less than the interest and
sinking fund tax required by Section
11 of Article XII of the Constitution
of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is ordered
computed,
certified,
levied
and
extended upon the tax duplicate and
collected by the same officers, in the
same manner and at the same time
that taxes for general purposes for
each of those years are certified,
extended and collected. The tax
shall be placed before and in preference to all other items and for the
full amount thereof. The funds

48
derived from those tax levies shall
be placed in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund as required by the
General Bond Ordinance, and those
funds, together with the interest collected on the m shall be irrevocably
pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds
when and as the same fall due; provided, however, that, subject to the
provisions of Section 8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in each year to
the extent that revenues are available from other sources for the payment of the Bonds and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount
of such tax shall be reduced by the
amount of such revenues so available and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds
are issued. Accrued interest and any
premium received from the sale of
the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund to be
applied to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the

The City Record
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or the Escrow
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations of the United
States certified by an independent
public accounting firm of national
reputation to be of such maturities
and interest payment dates and to
bear such interest, without further
investment or reinvestment of either
the principal amount thereof or the
interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held in trust and committed, except as hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient, together with moneys referred to in (i)
above, for the payment, at their
maturities or redemption dates, of
all debt charges on the Bonds to
their date of maturity or redemption, as the case may be, or if
default in such payment shall have
occurred on such date then to the
date of the tender of such payment;
provided, that if any Bonds are to
be redeemed prior to the maturity
thereof, notice of such redemption
shall have been duly given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the
Trustee shall have been duly made
for the giving of such notice. Any
moneys held by the Escrow Agent
in accordance with the provisions of
this Section shall be invested by the
Escrow Agent in direct obligations
of the United States of America
maturing, or redeemable at the
option of the holder, at times and in
amounts sufficient to meet payment
of debt charges on the Bonds, as
directed by the Director of Finance.
Any income or interest earned by, or
increment to, the investments held
under this Section shall, to the
extent determined from time to time
by the Escrow Agent to be in excess
of the amount required to be held
by it for the purposes of this Section, be transferred at the time of
such determination as provided in
Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent. In the event of
nonpresentment of any Bond as
described in Section 17(a) of the
General Bond Ordinance, the moneys
held pursuant to this Section shall
be held and paid as provided in said
Section 17(a) for unclaimed funds
held by a Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purposes set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Six Million Three Hundred Eighty Thousand
Dollars
($6,380,000)
(the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth
in a certificate providing for the
final terms of the Notes and the sale
of the Notes and signed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”).

980

May 18, 2005
Section 10. Term of the Notes. The
Notes: shall bear interest at such
rate, not exceeding six percent (6%)
per year, as may be fixed by the
Director of Finance of the City in
the Note Certificate of Award; shall
be dated their date of issuance;
shall mature on the date set forth
in the Note Certificate of Award,
which shall be no later than five (5)
years from such date of issuance;
shall be subject to redemption by
the City at any time prior to maturity without penalty, provided that,
if the Director of Finance, based on
the advice of the financial advisor
of the City, determines that it is in
the best interest of the City in order
to enhance the marketability of the
Notes, the Director of Finance may
cause
the
Notes
to
not
be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two
(2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated
“Parks
and
Recreation
Facilities Improvement Bond Anticipation Notes, Series 2004”; shall be
issued in such numbers and denominations as may be requested by the
Note
Purchaser
(hereinafter
defined); and shall be issued in
fully registered form (which may be
in a book entry only system) in
denominations of $5,000 or integral
multiples thereof. Interest shall be
payable semi-annually on the dates
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award; provided that if the Notes
mature on or before the end of the
twelfth (12th) month following their
date of issuance, interest on the
Notes shall be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note Registrar”); provided that the
Escrow Agent also shall act as paying agent for the Notes so long as
the Notes are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the
“Note Registrar Agreement”) providing for services relating to the registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of Notes. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and
for
reimbursement
of
expenses
incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds
of the Notes to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). Subject to the provisions of Section 5, the person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.

May 18, 2005
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Notes
with other bond anticipation notes
of the City into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of
their sale as a single issue to be
designated “Various Purpose General
Obligation
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 2005A”. The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Notes are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 11. Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
be executed by the Director of
Finance and the Mayor, provided
that one of such signatures may be
a facsimile. Such Notes shall express
upon their face the purpose for
which they are issued and that they
are issued pursuant to this ordinance, and may be payable in Federal Reserve funds of the United
States of America if requested by
the Note Purchaser.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall be sold at private sale
to the Note Purchaser by the Director of Finance in the principal

The City Record
amount set forth in a certificate of
award to be executed by the Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate
of Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The Notes shall be sold to
SBK-Brooks Investment Corp., Apex
Pryor Securities, Loop Capital Markets, LLC, M.R. Beal & Company,
Seibert Brandford Shank & Co., LLC
(collectively, the “Note Purchaser”).
The proceeds of such sale shall be
paid into the proper fund and used
for the purpose for which the Notes
are being issued under the provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes. That tax shall be
and is ordered computed, certified,
levied and extended upon the tax
duplicate and collected by the same
officers, in the same manner and at
the same time that taxes for general purposes for each year are certified, extended and collected. That
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies required
by this Ordinance shall be placed in
the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account, and those funds,
together with the interest collected
on
them,
shall
be
irrevocably
pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of the Notes or the
Bonds in anticipation of which they
are issued, when and as the same
falls due; provided, however, that in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the Notes
and Bonds and are appropriated for
such purpose, the amount of such
direct tax upon all of the taxable
property in the City may be reduced
by the amount of such revenues so
available and appropriated.
Section 15. Preparation of Disclosure Document for the Notes. The
Director of Finance is hereby authorized to prepare, execute and deliver to the Note Purchaser, to the
extent required by law, a preliminary and final Official Statement or
any other appropriate disclosure
document of the City in accordance
with the sale and delivery of the
Notes, and to deem such disclosure
document “final” for purposes of
SEC Rule 15c2-12.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are

981

49
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Federal Tax Covenants. The City covenants that it
will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
Code) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or
persons acting for it, will, among
other acts of compliance, (i) apply
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds to the governmental purpose
of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the
yield
on
investment
property
acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds, and, as applicable,
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.

50
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Notes and
the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes
and the Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 19. Bond Insurance and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written advice of the Financial Advisor,
the Director of Finance may obtain
a commitment for municipal bond
insurance issued by a nationally recognized municipal bond insurance
company
insuring
the
payment
when due of the principal of and
interest on all or any portion of the
Bonds, request a rating on the
Bonds from one or more nationally
recognized rating organizations, and
do any and all things and take any
and all actions required to secure a
policy of municipal bond insurance
and/or a rating or ratings on the
Bonds including, but not limited to,
the entering into of agreements on
behalf of the City necessary to
secure a policy of municipal bond
insurance. Those agreements may
be in separate documents or included in a Bond Purchase Agreement,
a registrar agreement or a Certificate of Award, or any combination,
and contain terms not materially
inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure that insurance or
obtain those ratings is authorized
and approved, and the Director of
Finance is authorized to provide for
the payment of any such amounts
from the proceeds of the Bonds to

The City Record
the extent available and otherwise
from any other funds lawfully available that are appropriated or shall
be appropriated for that purpose.
Section 20. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance were taken, and
that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in those formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 21. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make then legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections
28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 22. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 23. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 24. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its

982

May 18, 2005
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 25. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 11, 2005.

Ord. No. 723-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to provide
for the issuance of unvoted general
obligation Bonds in the maximum
principal amount of $16,900,000 for
the purpose of providing funds to
improve the Municipal Street System
and the issuance of notes in anticipation of those Bonds.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Sixteen
Million Nine Hundred Thousand Dollars ($16,900,000) (the “Bonds”) to
finance the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is twenty (20)
years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance of unvoted general obligations of the City, with the specific
terms of each series of bonds to be
contained in ordinances authorizing
their issuance (the “Series Bond
Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to pay the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Sec-

May 18, 2005
tion 1 that are urgently needed for
the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Sixteen Million Nine Hundred Thousand Dollars ($16,900,000)
for the purpose of providing funds
to improve the municipal street system and related facilities, including
streets, expressways, roadways, driveways, sidewalks and pedestrian
walkways, by acquiring, constructing, reconstructing, opening, extending, widening, grading, draining,
paving, resurfacing, lighting and
curbing, installing gutters, sidewalks and related pedestrian improvements, constructing and improving culverts, resetting and constructing catch basins and other
storm drainage facilities, constructing, reconstructing, replacing, renovating and rehabilitating bridges,
acquiring any real estate and interests in real estate, including easements, necessary for such purpose,
and installing signs, signals, markings and other devices for traffic
control purposes, together with the
payment of all associated preliminary costs and costs of site clearance and all appurtenances necessary and incidental thereto, and to
pay any capitalized interest and all
expenses
incurred
in
connection
with the issuance of the securities,
including any financing costs within the meaning of Revised Code Section 133.01(K), and such other costs
of those permanent improvements as
may be financed with the proceeds
of
securities
as
permitted
by
Revised Code Section 133.15(B) and
as otherwise permitted by law; and
to authorize the issuance of notes in
anticipation of the Bonds.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance in the principal amount
and for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated
“Bridges
and
Roadways
Improvement Bonds, Series 2005.”
The Bonds shall be issued in one lot
as fully registered Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or any integral
multiple thereof. The Bonds shall be
numbered as determined by the
Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
June 1, 2005, or such other date, but
in no event later than December 31,
2005, specified in the certificate of
award providing for the final terms
of the Bonds and the sale of the
Bonds signed by the Director of
Finance in accordance with this
Ordinance
(the
“Certificate
of
Award”). The Bonds shall bear
interest at the rate or rates per year
specified
in
the
Certificate
of
Award; provided that if all the
Bonds bear interest at the same rate
per year, then such rate shall not

The City Record
exceed seven percent (7%) per year,
and if the Bonds bear interest at
more than one rate per year, then
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed seven percent (7%) per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable, until the principal amount
is paid, semi-annually on June 1 and
December 1 of each year or on the
days specified in the Certificate of
Award as the dates on which interest on the Bonds shall be payable
(the
“Interest
Payment
Dates”),
beginning December 1, 2005 or on
such other Interest Payment Date
specified in the Certificate of Award
as the first Interest Payment Date.
The Bonds shall mature on December 1 in no more than twenty (20)
substantially equal annual installments, beginning December 1, 2006,
or according to the schedule set
forth in the Certificate of Award,
provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, (ii) the first principal
payment on the Bonds shall be no
earlier than June 1, 2006, and no
later than December 1, 2006, (iii) the
final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than twenty (20)
years from that date which is
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount
thereof
shall
be
payable in annual installments such
that the total principal and interest
payments on the Bonds in any fiscal year in which principal is
payable is not more than three times
the amount of those payments in
any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the “Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a) Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements

983

51
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole or in
part on any date, in integral multiples of $5,000, at the optional redemption dates and at the redemption prices (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount
redeemed) specified in the Certificate of Award, plus, in each case,
accrued interest to the redemption
date, provided the first optional
redemption date shall not be later
than December 1, 2015 and the highest redemption price shall not be
greater than 102%. The Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that it is in the
best interests of the City for the
Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Require-

52
ments of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar, given upon the direction
of the Council of the City by passage of an ordinance. That notice
shall specify the redemption date
and the principal amount of each
maturity of Bonds to be redeemed,
and shall be given at least forty-five
(45) days prior to the redemption
date or such shorter period as shall
be acceptable to the Registrar.
There shall be deposited with the
Registrar on or prior to the redemption date funds sufficient to redeem
at the redemption price all of the
redeemable Bonds for which notice
of redemption has been given.
(c) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as though it were a separate
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption, then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(d) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption, to the registered
owner of each Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close
of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing and to any
municipal bond insurance company
that has issued a policy insuring
some or all of the Bonds. Failure to
receive notice by mail or any defect
in that notice regarding any Bond,

The City Record
however, shall not affect the validity
of
the
proceedings
for
the
redemption of any Bond.
(e) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph, the Bonds and portions
thereof called for redemption shall
become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption of all of the Bonds and portions
thereof to be redeemed, including
interest accrued to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail, then from and after the
redemption date those Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall cease to bear interest and
no longer shall be considered to be
outstanding. If that money shall not
be so available on the redemption
date, or that notice shall not have
been deposited in the mail, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners and shall be
paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those
Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying agent. Principal shall be payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
date provided in the Agreement
authorized in Section 3 (the “Record
Date”). Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond
Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are
held by a Depository in a book entry
system (as described in Section 3),
debt charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the
United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance, except for the third paragraph of Section 13(a) (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 (pertaining generally to the periods during which the City is not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), will not
apply to the Bonds. Except for those
provisions, the General Bond Ordinance is included as a part of this
Ordinance as fully as if restated in
this Ordinance. Words and terms not
otherwise defined in this Ordinance
shall have the same meaning as set
forth in the General Bond Ordinance.

984

May 18, 2005
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor and by the City’s Director of Finance or Acting Director of
Finance; provided, however, that in
accordance with Section 9.96 of the
Code and the foregoing requirement
that each Bond bear the manual signature of an authorized officer of
the Trustee, either or both of the
signatures of the City’s Mayor or
Acting Mayor or of its Director of
Finance
or
Acting
Director
of
Finance may be a facsimile. The
Bonds shall bear the seal of the
City, which seal may be a facsimile
seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the
City’s Charter, the Director of Law
or Acting Director of Law shall prepare the Bonds and shall endorse
thereon his or her approval of the
form and correctness thereof by his
or her manual or facsimile signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Registrar”); provided
that the Escrow Agent shall also act
as paying agent for the Bonds so
long as the Bonds are held in a book
entry
system.
The
Director
of
Finance shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
the Registrar Agreement among the
City, the Registrar and the Escrow
Agent (the “Agreement”) in substantially the form as is now on file
with the Clerk of Council in File No.
723-05-A.
The
Agreement
is
approved, together with any changes
or amendments that are not inconsistent with this ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance and the Director of
Law on behalf of the City, all of
which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Agreement or amendments to the Agreement. The Director of Finance shall
provide for the payment of the services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant
to the Agreement from the proceeds
of the Bonds to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). Subject to the provisions of
Section 5, the person in whose name
a Bond is registered on the Bond
Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be

May 18, 2005
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and

The City Record
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to SBKBrooks
Investment
Corp.,
Apex
Pryor Securities, Loop Capital Markets, LLC, M.R. Beal & Company,

985

53
Seibert Brandford Shank & Co., LLC
(collectively,
the
“Original
Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance, the written advice
of either Government Capital Management, LLC or Columbia Equity
Financial Corporation or both (the
“Financial Advisor”), and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase
the Bonds, including: the principal
amount of the Bonds, final purchase
price (which shall be not less than
97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of
delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal installments are payable (at
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Bonds (if different from those set
forth in Section 2) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance
to be set forth in that Certificate. As
permitted under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each of
them is, authorized and directed to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest
of the City to establish the terms
and requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, and procedure, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser,
to
give
all
appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the
Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments
and
to
take
such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Bonds. The Director of Finance is
authorized and directed to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement (the “Bond Purchase Agreement”), approved as to
form and correctness by the Director of Law, between the City and
the Original Purchaser setting forth
the terms and conditions on which
the City agrees to sell the Bonds
and the Original Purchaser agrees
to buy the Bonds on terms consistent with this Ordinance. The Bond
Purchase Agreement is approved
substantially in the form now on the
file with the Clerk of Council in the
File referenced in Section 3, together with any changes or amendments
that are not inconsistent with this
Ordinance
and
not
substantially
adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
and the Director of Law on behalf
of the City, all of which shall be
conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Bond Purchase Agreement or amendments to the Bond
Purchase Agreement. It is determined that the terms of the Bonds,
as provided in this Ordinance and as
may be provided in or pursuant to
the Certificate of Award, are in the

54
best interest of the City and in compliance with all legal requirements.
If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document in the form of an Official
Statement is appropriate or necessary in connection with the original
issuance of the Bonds, he is authorized to prepare or cause to be prepared on behalf of the City an Official Statement and any necessary
supplements and to authorize the
use and distribution of that Official
Statement and any supplements. He
is authorized to sign on behalf of
the City and in his official capacity, that Official Statement and any
supplements approved by such officer. He is authorized to sign and
deliver, on behalf of the City and in
his official capacity, such certificates in connection with the accuracy of the Official Statement and
any supplements as may, in his
judgment, be necessary or appropriate. He is also authorized to determine and certify on behalf of the
City that such disclosure document
is “deemed final” by the City within the meaning of Securities and
Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12
(the “SEC Rule”). The Director of
Finance is authorized to contract for
services for the production and distribution of preliminary and final
official statements, including by
printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Bonds, the City agrees, in
accordance with, and as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Bonds under, the SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, and the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to prepare, or cause to be prepared,
and to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Bonds in accordance with the
SEC Rule. The performance of that
Agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual appropriation to meet costs the
City would be required to incur to
perform it.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the Financial
Advisor and legal counsel.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 2005A”
or such other designation as may be

The City Record
set forth in the Certificate of Award.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes, a direct
tax annually during the period the
Bonds
are
outstanding,
in
an
amount sufficient to provide for the
payment of that interest, when and
as the same shall fall due, and also
to discharge the principal of the
Bonds at maturity, which tax shall
not be less than the interest and
sinking fund tax required by Section
11 of Article XII of the Constitution
of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is ordered
computed,
certified,
levied
and
extended upon the tax duplicate and
collected by the same officers, in the
same manner and at the same time
that taxes for general purposes for
each of those years are certified,
extended and collected. The tax
shall be placed before and in preference to all other items and for the
full amount thereof. The funds
derived from those tax levies shall
be placed in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund as required by the
General Bond Ordinance, and those
funds, together with the interest collected on them shall be irrevocably
pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds
when and as the same fall due; provided, however, that, subject to the
provisions of Section 8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in each year to
the extent that revenues are available from other sources for the payment of the Bonds and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount
of such tax shall be reduced by the
amount of such revenues so available and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds
are issued. Accrued interest and any
premium received from the sale of
the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund to be
applied to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General

986

May 18, 2005
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United

May 18, 2005
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance
for unclaimed funds held by a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment of any Bond as described
in Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section
17(a) for unclaimed funds held by a
Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purposes set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal
amount
not
to
exceed
$16,900,000 (the “Notes”) upon the
direction of the Director of Finance
to be set forth in a certificate providing for the final terms of the
Notes and the sale of the Notes and
signed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
Section 10. Term of the Notes. The
Notes: shall bear interest at such
rate, not exceeding six percent (6%)
per year, as may be fixed by the
Director of Finance of the City in
the Note Certificate of Award; shall
be dated their date of issuance;
shall mature on the date set forth
in the Note Certificate of Award,
which shall be no later than five (5)
years from such date of issuance;
shall be subject to redemption by
the City at any time prior to maturity without penalty, provided that,
if the Director of Finance, based on
the advice of the financial advisor
of the City, determines that it is in
the best interest of the City in order
to enhance the marketability of the
Notes, the Director of Finance may
cause
the
Notes
to
not
be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two
(2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated
“Bridges
and
Roadways
Improvement
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 2005”; shall be issued
in such numbers and denominations
as may be requested by the Note
Purchaser
(hereinafter
defined);
and shall be issued in fully registered form (which may be in a book
entry only system) in denominations
of $5,000 or integral multiples thereof. Interest shall be payable semiannually on the dates set forth in
the Note Certificate of Award; provided that if the Notes mature on or
before the end of the twelfth (12th)
month
following
their
date
of
issuance, interest on the Notes shall
be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note Registrar”); provided that the
Escrow Agent also shall act as paying agent for the Notes so long as
the Notes are held in a book entry

The City Record
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the
“Note Registrar Agreement”) providing for services relating to the registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of Notes. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and
for
reimbursement
of
expenses
incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds
of the Notes to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). Subject to the provisions of Section 5, the person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City

987

55
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Notes
with other bond anticipation notes
of the City into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of
their sale as a single issue to be
designated “Various Purpose General
Obligation
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 2005”. The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Notes are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 11. Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
be executed by the Director of
Finance and the Mayor, provided
that one of such signatures may be
a facsimile. Such Notes shall express
upon their face the purpose for
which they are issued and that they
are issued pursuant to this ordinance, and may be payable in Federal Reserve funds of the United
States of America if requested by
the Note Purchaser.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall be sold at private sale
to the Note Purchaser by the Director of Finance in the principal
amount set forth in a certificate of
award to be executed by the Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate
of Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The Notes shall be sold to
SBK-Brooks Investment Corp., Apex
Pryor Securities, Loop Capital Markets, LLC, M.R. Beal & Company,
Seibert Brandford Shank & Co., LLC
(collectively, the “Note Purchaser”).
The proceeds of such sale shall be
paid into the proper fund and used
for the purpose for which the Notes
are being issued under the provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes. That tax shall be
and is ordered computed, certified,
levied and extended upon the tax
duplicate and collected by the same
officers, in the same manner and at

56
the same time that taxes for general purposes for each year are certified, extended and collected. That
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies required
by this Ordinance shall be placed in
the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account, and those funds,
together with the interest collected
on
them,
shall
be
irrevocably
pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of the Notes or the
Bonds in anticipation of which they
are issued, when and as the same
falls due; provided, however, that in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the Notes
and Bonds and are appropriated for
such purpose, the amount of such
direct tax upon all of the taxable
property in the City may be reduced
by the amount of such revenues so
available and appropriated.
Section 15. Preparation of Disclosure Document for the Notes. The
Director of Finance is hereby authorized to prepare, execute and deliver to the Note Purchaser, to the
extent required by law, a preliminary and final Official Statement or
any other appropriate disclosure
document of the City in accordance
with the sale and delivery of the
Notes, and to deem such disclosure
document “final” for purposes of
SEC Rule 15c2-12.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Federal Tax Covenants. The City covenants that it
will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
Code) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds to be and to remain

The City Record
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or
persons acting for it, will, among
other acts of compliance, (i) apply
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds to the governmental purpose
of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the
yield on investment property acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds, and, as applicable,
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Notes and
the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes
and the Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,

988

May 18, 2005
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 19. Bond Insurance and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written advice of the Financial Advisor,
the Director of Finance may obtain
a commitment for municipal bond
insurance issued by a nationally recognized municipal bond insurance
company
insuring
the
payment
when due of the principal of and
interest on all or any portion of the
Bonds, request a rating on the
Bonds from one or more nationally
recognized rating organizations, and
do any and all things and take any
and all actions required to secure a
policy of municipal bond insurance
and/or a rating or ratings on the
Bonds including, but not limited to,
the entering into of agreements on
behalf of the City necessary to
secure a policy of municipal bond
insurance. Those agreements may
be in separate documents or included in a Bond Purchase Agreement,
a registrar agreement or a Certificate of Award, or any combination,
and contain terms not materially
inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure that insurance or
obtain those ratings is authorized
and approved, and the Director of
Finance is authorized to provide for
the payment of any such amounts
from the proceeds of the Bonds to
the extent available and otherwise
from any other funds lawfully available that are appropriated or shall
be appropriated for that purpose.
Section 20. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance were taken, and
that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in those formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 21. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make then legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections
28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.

May 18, 2005
Section 22. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 23. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 24. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 25. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 11, 2005.

Ord. No. 724-05.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Jefferson Avenue to
Thomas P. Leneghan.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement

The City Record
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 004-19-180,
as more fully described below, to
Thomas P. Leneghan.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 004-19-180
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 637, 638, 639 and 640 in
S.S. Stone’s survey of the College
Tract of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 87 as shown by
the recorded plat of said survey in
Volume 2 of Maps, Page 31 of Cuyahoga County Records, said parts of
Sublot Nos. 637, 638, 639 and 640
together forming a parcel of land
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Northwesterly
line of Jefferson Avenue, S.W. at the
most Easterly corner of said Sublot
No. 640, thence Northwesterly along
the
Northeasterly
lines
of
said
Sublots, 120 feet to a point 12 feet
Southerly from the Northeasterly or
most Northerly corner of said Sublot
No. 637; thence Southwesterly along
a line parallel with the Northwesterly line of said Sublot No. 637, 30
feet; thence Southeasterly along a
line parallel with the Northeasterly
line of said Sublots, 120 feet to the
Northwesterly
line
of
Jefferson
Avenue, South West; thence Northeasterly along the Northwesterly
line of Jefferson Avenue, S.W. 30
feet to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.

989

57
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 754-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of Water
Revenue Bonds of the city in a principal
amount
not
to
exceed
$100,000,000 for the purpose of refunding outstanding Water Revenue
Bonds, authorizing a supplemental
indenture to supplement the amended and restated trust indenture
securing outstanding Water Revenue Bonds of the city, authorizing
related matters, and declaring an
emergency.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
Ohio, a municipal corporation and
political subdivision in and of the
State of Ohio, is authorized under
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
the State and the Charter of the
City, among other things: (a) to own
and
operate
the
public
utility
referred to as the Waterworks System; (b) to make, from time to time,
improvements to the Waterworks
System; (c) to borrow money for the
purpose of paying costs of those
improvements and refunding outstanding bonds issued for that purpose; and (d) to issue additional
bonds secured by a pledge of and
lien on the Net Revenues of the
Waterworks System on a parity
with Bonds outstanding under the
Indenture, as defined and described
below; and
Whereas, this Council has determined that it is necessary to issue,
sell and deliver additional Bonds
under the Indenture in order to
refund certain Outstanding Bonds to
reduce
the
total
debt
service
payable on the Outstanding Bonds;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of public property, health and safety, and for the further reason that
this ordinance is required to be
immediately effective to permit the
issuance and sale of the Refunding
Bonds to obtain debt service savings
for the benefit of the Waterworks
System and thereby provide for the
usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

58
Section 1. Definitions. In addition
to the words and terms defined in
the Indenture, a copy of which is on
file in with the Clerk of Council in
File No. 754-05-A. The following
words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless the context
or use otherwise indicates:
“Bond Purchase Agreement” means
one or more purchase agreements
between the City and the Original
Purchasers with respect to the Refunding Bonds authorized by Section
2 of this Ordinance.
“Certificate of Award” means one
or more certificates providing for
the determination of the final terms
of the Refunding Bonds of each
Series, consistent with the requirements of this Ordinance including,
without limitation, Section 2 of this
Ordinance.
“Continuing Disclosure Agreement”
means one or more agreements
authorized by Section 13 of this
Ordinance and to be in accordance
with Rule 15c2-12 of the Securities
and Exchange Commission.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby bond purchase agreement or other credit enhancement,
support or liquidity device used to
enhance or provide for the security
or liquidity of Refunding Bonds of
any Series.
“Escrow Agreement” means one or
more agreements between the City
and the Trustee, in its capacity as
Escrow Agent, authorized by Section
6 of this Ordinance.
“Escrow Fund” means the fund,
including the account or accounts
therein, required to be maintained
with the Trustee, in its capacity as
Escrow
Agent
pursuant
to
the
Escrow Agreement.
“Financial Advisor” means, with
respect to the Refunding Bonds,
Government Capital Management,
L.L.C. or Columbia Equity Financial
Corp., acting jointly or singly, or
any other financial advisory firm or
firms retained by the City.
“Indenture” means the Amended
and Restated Indenture, effective
October 5, 2001, between the City
and U.S. Bank National Association,
as successor trustee, delivered under
authority of Ordinance No. 2011-95
passed by the Council of the City on
April 1, 1996 and the consent of the
owners of 66-2/3% of the applicable
Bonds under the Indenture of Mortgage dated as of November 1, 1977.
“Original Purchasers” means, with
respect to the Refunding Bonds,
A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc., Bear,
Stearns & Co., Inc., UBS Financial
Services Inc. and McDonald Investments, Inc.
“Outstanding Bonds” means water
revenue bonds of the City issued
and outstanding under the Indenture.
“Refunded Bonds” means those
Outstanding Bonds designated in
the Certificate of Award as the
Bonds to be refunded with proceeds
of the Refunding Bonds.
“Refunding
Bonds”
means
the
Bonds authorized to be issued under
this Ordinance and the Indenture in
one or more Series, sold under one
or more Bond Purchase Agreements
and secured under one or more Supplemental Indentures supplementing
the Indenture to provide the terms
of each Series.
“Supplemental Indenture” means
one or more Supplemental Indentures between the City and the

The City Record
Trustee
securing
the
Refunding
Bonds and authorized under Section
6 of this Ordinance. In the event
that the Refunding Bonds are issued
in more than one Series under more
than one Supplemental Indenture,
references in this Ordinance to the
Supplemental Indenture mean the
Supplemental Indenture applicable
to that Series.
Section 2. Authorization of the Refunding Bonds. This Council finds
and determines it is necessary and
proper and in the best interest of
the City to issue the Refunding
Bonds for the purpose of refunding
the Refunded Bonds. The Refunding
Bonds may be issued in one or more
Series. The principal amount of each
Series of Refunding Bonds is to be
the amount set forth in the Certificate of Award authorized in Section
2. The aggregate principal amount
of Refunding Bonds of all Series
issued for the purpose of refunding
the
Refunded
Bonds
shall
not
exceed $100,000,000 and shall be the
amount determined by the Director
of Finance, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, to be
necessary to refund the Refunded
Bonds and to obtain aggregate net
present value debt service savings
with respect to the Refunded Bonds
of not less than three percent (3%).
The proceeds from the sale of each
Series of Refunding Bonds shall be
allocated, deposited and applied as
provided in Section 4 of this Ordinance.
The Refunding Bonds may be
issued in one or more separate
Series, each bearing a distinctive
designation, provided that the Refunding Bonds of each Series satisfy the requirements of this Ordinance. Separate Series of Refunding
Bonds may be issued at the same or
different
times.
The
Refunding
Bonds of each Series shall be designated as provided in the applicable Certificate of Award. A separate
Certificate of Award and a separate
Supplemental
Indenture
may
be
delivered for each Series.
In the event that the Director of
Finance,
based
on
the
written
advice of a Financial Advisor, determines that the City’s best interests
will be served by causing a Series
of Refunding Bonds to be obligations bearing interest at variable
interest rates, then the Director of
Finance is authorized to so specify
in the Certificate of Award for that
Series. If the Director of Finance so
determines, then the method and
procedure by which the variable
rate of interest to be borne by the
Refunding Bonds of that Series
shall be determined as provided in
the applicable Supplemental Indenture, whether by auction, by reference to a market index, by a remarketing agent or otherwise; provided
that no Series of Refunding Bonds
shall bear interest at a rate in
excess of sixteen percent (16%) per
year. Notwithstanding that limitation, a Series of Refunding Bonds
held by a provider of a Credit Support Instrument may bear interest at
a rate not in excess of twenty-five
percent (25%) per year as provided
in the agreement with the provider
of the Credit Support Instrument.
The Director of Finance may determine that the terms of a variable
rate Series of Refunding Bonds may
or may not permit the Holders to
tender their variable rate Refunding

990

May 18, 2005
Bonds for purchase by the City. If
the Director of Finance designates
any Series of Refunding Bonds as
variable rate Refunding Bonds, and
if the Holders of that Series of
Refunding Bonds are to be entitled
to tender those Refunding Bonds for
purchase,
then
the
Director
of
Finance shall also designate in the
Certificate of Award for those variable rate Refunding Bonds, the tender agent or agents and the remarketing agent or agents, which designations shall be based on the
determination of the Director of
Finance,
based
on
the
written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
the parties so designated possess
the requisite resources and experience to provide the services required
of them and that the terms on which
the designated parties have agreed
to provide such services are fair and
commercially reasonable. The Director of Finance is authorized to enter
into agreements in connection with
the
delivery
of
the
Refunding
Bonds, and from time to time thereafter so long as the Refunding
Bonds are outstanding, with providers of Credit Support Instruments, tender agents (which may be
the Trustee), remarketing agents
(which may be any of the Original
Purchasers) and others as may be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be necessary or appropriate to provide for the method of
determining the variable interest
rates, permitting holders the right
of tender and providing for payment
of the purchase price of, or debt service on, the variable rate Refunding
Bonds. In the event the variable rate
Refunding Bonds are issued as auction rate obligations, the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements from time to time, so
long as the Refunding Bonds are
outstanding, with auction agents
and others, or to cause the Trustee
to enter into those agreements,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor that the parties
so designated possess the requisite
resources and experience to provide
the services required of them and
that the terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide
such services are fair and commercially reasonable.
Regardless of whether a Series of
Refunding Bonds bears interest at
variable or fixed rates, the Director
of Finance is authorized to contract
for Credit Support Instruments, and
to pay the costs of them from proceeds of the Refunding Bonds, if he
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
the Credit Support Instrument or
Instruments will result in a savings
in the cost of the financing to the
City.
The Refunded Bonds shall be designated by the Director of Finance
in the Certificate of Award and
shall consist of those Outstanding
Bonds the refunding of which will
enable the City, in the judgment of
the Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, to obtain aggregate net
present value debt service savings
of not less than three percent (3%).
The Refunded Bonds shall be called
for redemption or retired on the date
or dates specified in the Certificate
of Award. The redemption dates so
specified shall be the dates required
under the Code for compliance with
Section 149(d) of the Code and other

May 18, 2005
applicable federal tax laws.
Section
3.
Sale
of
Refunding
Bonds. The Refunding Bonds shall
be sold to the Original Purchasers
pursuant to one or more Bond Purchase Agreements substantially in
the form of the Bond Purchase
Agreement now on file with the
Clerk in the File referenced in Section 1 with such changes not inconsistent with the Indenture or this
Ordinance
and
not
substantially
adverse to the City as may be
approved by the Director of Finance
and the Director of Law. The
approval of any changes by those
officers and the determination by
those officers that the change is not
substantially adverse to the City
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing and delivery of the Bond
Purchase Agreement by those officers. The Director of Finance shall
sign and deliver the Certificate of
Award and Bond Purchase Agreement for the Refunding Bonds of
each Series, one or more of which
shall specify and set forth the following details with respect to the
Refunding Bonds:
(a)
the
aggregate
principal
amount; provided that amount shall
not exceed $100,000,000 assuming
that the Refunding Bonds are to be
initially offered to the public at a
price at least equal to their aggregate principal amount; however, if
any of the Refunding Bonds are to
be initially offered to the public at
an original issue discount, the maximum aggregate principal amount of
Refunding Bonds shall be increased
over that amount by an amount
equal to the aggregate original
issue discount net of the aggregate
original issue premium;
(b) the date or dates of the
Refunding Bonds;
(c) the purchase price to be paid
to the City by the Original Purchasers, which amount shall be not
less than: (i) 97% of the amount
determined by subtracting from the
aggregate principal amount of the
Refunding Bonds any aggregate
original issue discount net of any
aggregate original issue premium
with
respect
to
the
Refunding
Bonds, plus (ii) any accrued interest on the Refunding Bonds from
their date to the date of their delivery to the Original Purchasers;
(d) whether any Refunding Bonds
are subject to optional redemption
prior to maturity and, if so, the earliest optional redemption date for
those Refunding Bonds subject to
prior redemption, which shall be not
later than ten years from the first
interest payment date of the applicable
Series,
and
the
applicable
redemption price, which shall be not
greater than 102% of the principal
amount redeemed;
(e) the dates on which principal
of the Refunding Bonds is to be
paid, which shall be not later than
30 years from the date of delivery,
with an identification of whether
the payment is due by stated maturity or by mandatory sinking fund
redemption of Refunding Bonds of a
particular maturity;
(f) the interest rates to be borne
by Refunding Bonds bearing interest at a fixed rate, which shall not
exceed amounts that result in an
average yield in excess of six percent (6%), and the method by which
the interest rate is to be determined
for Refunding Bonds bearing interest at variable rates, consistent with

The City Record
Section 2. The Refunding Bonds of
the same Series and same maturity
may bear interest at different interest rates;
(g) the particular Outstanding
Bonds or portions thereof to be
Refunded Bonds;
(h) any deposit required to be
made to the Debt Service Reserve
Fund; and
(i) the title and Series designation
for the Bonds.
It is determined that the terms of
the Refunding Bonds as so determined within the limitations set
forth in this Ordinance and as so
specified and set forth in the Certificate of Award will be in the best
interest of the City and consistent
with all legal requirements.
Section 4. Application of Proceeds
of Refunding Bonds. The proceeds
of the sale of the Refunding Bonds
shall be deposited as follows:
(a) to the Trustee, for deposit to
the credit of the Interest Account in
the Debt Service Fund, the amount,
if any, received by the City upon
delivery of the Refunding Bonds as
accrued interest on any Refunding
Bonds from their dated date to the
date of the delivery of and payment
for those Refunding Bonds;
(b) to the Trustee, for deposit to
the credit of the Debt Service
Reserve Fund, any amount identified in the Certificate of Award as
required to be deposited in the Debt
Service Reserve Fund;
(c) to the Trustee, for deposit to
the credit of any Escrow Fund
established pursuant to any Escrow
Agreement, any proceeds to be
applied in accordance with the
Escrow Agreement to refund the
Refunded Bonds; and
(d) to the Trustee for deposit in
the Costs of Issuance Fund for the
Refunding Bonds (to be established
under the applicable Supplemental
Indenture) the balance of the proceeds to be applied to pay costs of
issuing the Refunding Bonds.
Provision shall be made in the
Supplemental
Indenture
for
the
application of any amounts held in
the funds and accounts established
under the Indenture and no longer
required for the security of the
Bonds as a result of the Refunded
Bonds no longer being Outstanding,
or any amounts that otherwise are
in excess of the required balances.
Provision may be made in the Supplemental Indenture for the creation
of separate accounts within the
funds established under the Indenture or Supplemental Indenture.
Section 5. Terms and Provisions
Applicable to the Refunding Bonds.
(a) Form; Exchange and Transfer.
All Refunding Bonds shall be issued
in
fully
registered
form.
The
Refunding Bonds initially shall be
delivered only in book-entry form,
shall be registered in the name of
the Depository or its nominee, as
registered owner, and immobilized
in the custody of the Depository,
and shall not be transferable or
exchangeable (except for transfer to
another Depository or its nominee)
without further action by the City
pursuant to the provisions of the
Supplemental Indenture.
(b) Dates; Denominations. The
Refunding Bonds shall be dated as
of the date or dates provided in the
Certificate of Award. The Refunding Bonds of each Series shall be

991

59
issued in the denominations permitted in the Supplemental Indenture.
(c) Interest and Place of Payment. The Refunding Bonds shall
bear interest at their respective
interest rates specified in the Certificate of Award (or, in the case of
variable
rate
Refunding
Bonds,
determined pursuant to the Supplemental Indenture). The Refunding
Bonds of each Series shall bear
interest from the most recent date
to which interest has been paid or
duly provided for or, if no interest
has been paid or duly provided for,
from their date. The principal and
any redemption premium and the
interest payable on each Refunding
Bond shall be payable at the times,
to the persons and in the manner set
forth in, or referenced by, the Supplemental
Indenture,
including,
without limitation, provisions thereof permitting special arrangements
for payments to the Depository.
(d) Maturities. The Refunding
Bonds shall mature on the principal
retirement dates provided in the Certificate of Award.
(e) Optional and Mandatory Redemption. The Refunding Bonds
may be subject to redemption prior
to maturity at the option of the City,
if and to the extent so provided in
the
Certificate
of
Award.
Any
Refunding Bonds so determined to
be subject to optional redemption
and maturing by their stated terms
after the earliest optional redemption date shall be subject to redemption at the option of the City on or
after the earliest optional redemption date in whole or in part on any
date at the redemption prices provided in the Certificate of Award
and in accordance with the applicable Supplemental Indenture and the
Indenture. The Refunding Bonds
designated in the Certificate of
Award as term bonds subject to
mandatory sinking fund redemption
shall be redeemed prior to maturity
on each mandatory redemption date
designated in the Certificate of
Award in the aggregate amount of
the sinking fund installment to be
paid on such mandatory redemption
date, all as provided in the Certificate of Award and in accordance
with the Supplemental Indenture.
(f) Execution. The Refunding
Bonds shall be signed by the persons and in the manner set forth in
the Indenture.
(g) Numbering. The Refunding
Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director of Finance.
Section 6. Authorization of Supplemental Indenture; Escrow Agreement. In order to secure the payment of the principal of and any
premium and interest on the Refunding
Bonds,
the
Director
of
Finance and Director of Public Utilities are authorized and directed, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
to sign and deliver to the Trustee,
in trust for the Original Purchasers
and subsequent holders of the Refunding Bonds, one or more Supplemental Indentures, approved as to
form and correctness by the Director of Law, not inconsistent with
this Ordinance, the Certificate of
Award and the Indenture and not
substantially adverse to the City as
may be approved by the officers
signing the same on behalf of the
City. The determination by those
officers that a Supplemental Indenture is not substantially adverse to

60
the City shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing and delivery
of that Supplemental Indenture by
those officers.
The Director of Finance and the
Director of Public Utilities are
authorized and directed, in the name
and on behalf of the City, to sign
and deliver one or more Escrow
Agreements between the City and
the
Trustee
as
Escrow
Agent,
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, providing
for the establishment of an Escrow
Fund as a trust fund in the custody
of the Trustee and the investment,
dedication and application of the
moneys deposited in the accounts
therein to the payment of the
Refunded Bonds and further providing for the payment of the fees and
expenses of the Trustee for the performance of its duties as Escrow
Agent.
Each
Escrow
Agreement
shall provide for the redemption of
the applicable Refunded Bonds subject to redemption in accordance
with the Certificate of Award and
shall provide irrevocable instruction
to
the
Trustee
to
effect
such
redemption in accordance with the
Indenture. The Director of Finance
is authorized, in the name and on
behalf of the City, to sign and deliver agreements, approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, with one or more institutions,
including agreements to enable the
City to more efficiently structure an
Escrow Fund, and thereby maximize
debt service savings and minimize
negative arbitrage. The Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to take such other actions as may
be
necessary
or
appropriate
to
accomplish the refunding of the
Refunded Bonds, including without
limitation, the retention of a firm of
independent certified public accountants to verify that the securities to
be in an Escrow Fund are of such
maturities or redemption dates, and
interest payment dates, and bear
such interest, as will be sufficient,
together with any available moneys
in an Escrow Fund, for the payment
of debt service on the Refunded
Bonds.
Section 7. Rebate Fund. There is
hereby established and ordered to be
maintained one or more separate
accounts (except when invested as
provided in the Indenture) within
the Rebate Fund held in the custody
of the Trustee under the Indenture.
The Rebate Fund is not pledged to
the payment of debt service and is
free and clear of any pledge or lien
given under the Indenture as security for the Refunding Bonds or the
Outstanding Bonds. Calculations of
excess earnings that may be due
and payable to the federal government pursuant to the Code and
deposits to those accounts of the
Rebate Fund shall be made as provided in the applicable Supplemental Indenture.
Section 8. Other Provisions for
Payment of Outstanding Bonds. The
City may, from time to time, deposit
funds in trust with the Trustee for
the payment of principal and interest requirements on any Outstanding Bonds if, in the judgment of the
Director of Finance and the Director of Public Utilities, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, doing so will improve the debt
service coverage ratio of the Water-

The City Record
works System (being the ratio of
Net Revenues to Annual Debt Service Requirements, as defined in the
Indenture). The Director of Finance
is authorized to deposit into an
escrow fund, from time to time, moneys transferred from Fund No. 52-300
of the Water Division, in amounts
that, in the aggregate, do not exceed
$50,000,000, with the actual amount
of any deposit to be determined by
the Director of Finance in consultation with the Director of Public Utilities. In order to cause any amounts
so deposited to be dedicated and
applied solely to the payment of the
principal of and interest and any
redemption premium on the designated Outstanding Bonds, as and
when due at maturity or upon prior
redemption, the Director of Finance
and the Director of Public Utilities
are authorized and directed, in the
name and on behalf of the City, to
sign and deliver one or more escrow
agreements approved as to form and
correctness by the Director of Law,
providing for the establishment of
an escrow fund as a trust fund in
the custody of the Trustee and the
investment, dedication and application of the moneys deposited therein and further providing for the payment to the Trustee of fees and
expenses for its performance of its
duties under the agreement. The
officers signing the agreement on
behalf of the City shall determine
that the agreement satisfies the
requirements of this Section, and
that determination shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the agreement by those officers. The
Director of Finance is authorized, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
to sign and deliver agreements,
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, with one or
more institutions, including agreements which will enable the City to
more
efficiently
structure
any
escrow funds established pursuant
to this Section, and thereby maximize debt service savings and minimize negative arbitrage. The Director of Finance is authorized and
directed to take such other actions
as may be necessary or appropriate
to accomplish any defeasance of the
designated Outstanding Bonds to be
paid from any escrow fund, including without limitation, the retention
of a firm of independent certified
public accountants to verify that the
securities to be deposited in escrow
are of such maturities or redemption
dates, and interest payment dates,
and bear such interest, as will be
sufficient, together with any available moneys, for the payment of
debt service on the designated Outstanding Bonds.
Section 9. Interest Hedge Agreements. This Council finds that by
engaging in interest hedge transactions, from time to time, the City
can, in effect, convert interest on all
or a portion of the Refunding Bonds
from a fixed rate to a floating rate,
or from a floating rate to a fixed
rate, or exchange one floating rate
for
another
floating
rate,
with
respect to all or any portion of the
Refunding
Bonds
or
otherwise
hedge its interest rate risk and
thereby may reduce its cost of borrowing by optimizing the relative
amounts of fixed and floating rate
obligations or minimizing the risk
of variations in its debt service
costs or maximizing savings. To per-

992

May 18, 2005
mit the City to have the flexibility
to undertake interest rate swap,
swaption, rate cap, rate collar and
other hedging transactions, from
time to time, and to establish the
procedures
for
approving
those
transactions, this Council authorizes
the execution and delivery of one or
more hedge agreements (each, a
"Hedge Agreement") and any related agreements necessary for the
consummation of the transactions
contemplated by each Hedge Agreement.
The Director of Finance may
authorize one or more interest rate
hedge transactions in accordance
with the applicable Hedge Agreement; provided that (a) the maximum aggregate notional amount of
interest rate hedge transactions outstanding at any one time, net of offsetting interest rate hedge transactions, shall not exceed such amount
as will result in a lowering of the
ratings assigned to the Bonds by the
rating agencies, as is evidenced by
written correspondence from the rating agencies or policies published in
writing by the rating agencies, and
(b) the term of each interest rate
swap transaction shall not exceed 30
years. The approval of each interest
rate hedge transaction by the Director of Finance shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing and delivery of the applicable Hedge Agreement by the Director of Finance.
Each Hedge Agreement shall be
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law. The Director of Finance may obtain the services of a swap advisor or other
financial advisor determined by the
Director of Finance to be knowledgeable about hedging transactions to advise the City concerning
any Hedge Agreement undertaken
pursuant to this Section.
The City’s payment obligations
under each Hedge Agreement shall
be payable from the Net Revenues
of the Waterworks System and may
be secured by a pledge of the Net
Revenues on a parity with the
pledge given under the Indenture to
secure Bonds, subject to the requirements of Article XI of the Indenture
with respect to Parity Obligations.
The obligation of the City to make
payments under a Hedge Agreement
does not and shall not represent or
constitute a general obligation, debt,
bonded indebtedness or a pledge of
the faith and credit of the City.
Nothing shall give any party to a
Hedge Agreement the right to have
excises, ad valorem or other taxes
levied by the City or the State for
the payment of any amounts due
under a Hedge Agreement .
Section 10. Covenants of the City.
The City, by issuance of the Refunding
Bonds,
covenants
and
agrees with the Holders of the
Refunding Bonds, that:
(a) The City will use the proceeds
of the Refunding Bonds to refinance
any Refunded Bonds, to fund any
required deposit to the Debt Service
Reserve Fund, and to pay costs
relating to the issuance of the
Refunding Bonds.
(b) The Clerk, or other appropriate officer of the City, will furnish
to the Original Purchasers and to
the Trustee a true transcript of proceedings, certified by the Clerk or
other officer, of all proceedings had
with reference to the issuance of the
Refunding
Bonds,
together
with

May 18, 2005
information from the City's records
as is necessary to determine the regularity and validity of the issuance
of the Refunding Bonds.
(c) The City will, at any and all
times, cause to be done all such further acts and things and cause to be
signed and delivered all further
instruments as may be necessary to
carry out the purpose of the Refunding Bonds and this Ordinance or as
may be required by Section 13, Article XVIII of the Constitution of Ohio
or the Charter of the City or the
Indenture or the applicable Supplemental Indenture and will comply
with all requirements of law applicable to the Waterworks System and
the operation thereof.
(d) The City will observe and perform all its agreements and obligations provided for in the Refunding
Bonds, this Ordinance, the Indenture
and each Supplemental Indenture.
All of the obligations under this
Ordinance and the Indenture and
each Supplemental Indenture are
hereby established as duties specifically enjoined by law and resulting
from an office, trust or station upon
the City within the meaning of Section 2731.01, Ohio Revised Code.
(e) The City will use, and will
restrict the use and investment of,
the
proceeds
of
the
Refunding
Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the Refunding Bonds will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds,
arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds
under Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the
Code or (ii) be treated other than as
bonds to which Section 103(a) of the
Code applies, and (b) the interest
thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
(f) The City covenants that (a) it
will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it
for the interest on the Refunding
Bonds to be and to remain excluded
from
gross
income
for
federal
income tax purposes, (b) it will not
take or authorize to be taken any
actions that would adversely affect
that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons
acting for it, will, among other acts
of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the Refunding Bonds to the
governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the yield on
investment property acquired with
those proceeds, (iii) make timely
rebate payments to the federal government, (iv) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports, and (v) refrain from certain
uses of proceeds, and, as applicable,
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Refunding
Bonds is also made with respect to
all issues for which any portion of
the debt service is paid from proceeds of the Refunding Bonds (and,
if different, the original issue and
any refunding issues in a series of
refundings), to the extent such compliance is necessary to assure exclusion of interest on the Refunding
Bonds from gross income for federal income tax purposes, and the
Director of Finance, or any other
officer having responsibility with
respect to the Refunding Bonds, is
authorized to take such actions with
respect to those issues as they are

The City Record
authorized in this section to take
with
respect
to
the
Refunding
Bonds.
The
Mayor,
the
Director
of
Finance or any other officer of the
City having responsibility for the
issuance of the Refunding Bonds is
authorized (a) to make or effect any
election,
selection,
designation,
choice, consent, approval or waiver
on behalf of the City with respect
to the Refunding Bonds as the City
is permitted or required to make or
give under the federal income tax
laws, including, without limitation,
any of the elections available under
Section 148 of the Code, for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting the favorable tax treatment
or status of the Refunding Bonds or
interest thereon or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose,
reducing
the
burden
or
expense of compliance, reducing the
rebate amount or payments or penalties, or making payments of special
amounts in lieu of making computations to determine, or paying,
excess earnings as rebate, or obviating those amount or payments, as
determined by that officer, (b) to
take any and all other actions, make
or obtain calculations, make payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and
on behalf of the City, as may be
appropriate to assure the exclusion
of interest from gross income and
the intended tax status of the
Refunding Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript
of
proceedings
for
the
Refunding Bonds, setting forth the
reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the
proceeds
of
the
Refunding
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment or status of the Refunding Bonds and
interest thereon.
Section 11. Authorization of Bond
Rating and Credit Enhancement. If,
in the judgment of the Director of
Finance, the filing of applications
for one or more ratings on the
Refunding Bonds by one or more
nationally recognized rating agencies or for Credit Support Instruments are necessary or desirable for
marketing purposes, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare
and submit any or all of those applications, to provide information as
may be required in support of those
applications and to provide for the
payment of the costs of ratings and
Credit Support Instruments from
proceeds of the Refunding Bonds or
funds of the Water Division, which
are appropriated for the purpose.
Section 12. Authorization of Official Statement. The Mayor, the
Director of Finance, the Director of
Public Utilities and the Commissioner of the Division of Water are
each authorized and directed to
cooperate in the preparation of and
(with respect only to the Official
Statements) to sign, on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities,
one or more Preliminary Official
Statements and final Official Statements, as described in the applicable Bond Purchase Agreement for
the applicable Series of Refunding
Bonds, to serve as disclosure documents in connection with the public

993

61
offering and sale of the Refunding
Bonds. Those officers are authorized
to use and distribute, or to authorize
the use and distribution of, the Preliminary Official Statements and the
final Official Statements and any
supplements to them in connection
with the original issuance of the
Refunding Bonds. The Mayor, the
Director of Finance, the Director of
Public Utilities and the Commissioner of the Division of Water are
further authorized to sign and deliver, on behalf of the City and in their
official capacities, acting alone or
together, certificates with respect to
the accuracy of each Preliminary
Official Statement and final Official
Statement and any supplements to
them as may be required under the
applicable Bond Purchase Agreement or as may, in their judgment,
be necessary or appropriate. The
Director of Finance is authorized
and directed to contract for services
for the production and distribution
of the Preliminary Official Statements and final Official Statements,
including by printed and electronic
means.
Section 13. Continuing Disclosure
Agreement. If and to the extent
required by Rule 15c2-12 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”), the City shall
enter into one or more Continuing
Disclosure Agreements, approved as
to form and correctness by the
Director of Law, between the City
and the Trustee. In each Continuing
Disclosure Agreement, the City shall
agree to provide, or cause to be provided, to each nationally recognized
municipal
securities
information
repository designated by the SEC
from time to time in accordance
with that Rule, and to any state
information depository, the annual
financial information and operating
data and notices of specified events
required by that Rule. The Director
of Finance is authorized and directed to sign and deliver each Continuing Disclosure Agreement and any
related agreements, certificates and
other instruments, and to deliver
such information, as may be necessary or appropriate to comply with
the requirements of the Rule. The
City understands and agrees that
those commitments are intended to
be for the benefit of the holders
from time to time of the Refunding
Bonds, including holders of bookentry interests in those Bonds.
Section 14. Authorization of Other
Documents.
To
provide
for
the
issuance and sale of the Refunding
Bonds and the consummation of the
transactions contemplated by this
Ordinance, the Indenture, each Bond
Purchase Agreement, each Supplemental
Indenture,
each
Escrow
Agreement, any agreement delivered
pursuant to Section 8 and each
Hedge Agreement, the Mayor, the
Director of Finance and the Director of Public Utilities and such other
officers of the City, in each case as
may be appropriate in accordance
with the Charter and other applicable laws, are authorized and directed to sign, acknowledge and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
City, such documents, certifications
and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to issue the
Refunding Bonds and to consummate those transactions.

62
Section 15. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to the
adoption of this Ordinance were
adopted in an open meeting of this
Council, and that all deliberations of
this Council, and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal
action, were in meetings open to the
public, in compliance with the law.
Section 16. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. The City determines,
represents and recites that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the
issuance of the Refunding Bonds in
order to make the Refunding Bonds
legal, valid and binding obligations
of the City have or will have happened or have or will have been
done and performed in regular and
due form as required by law and the
City's Charter; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional, is
applicable to the Refunding Bonds
or their issuance. It is further found
and determined, and is represented
and recited, that the provisions of
the City’s Charter and the rules of
this Council have been fully complied with and that this Ordinance
was adopted in conformity therewith.
Section 17. Severability. In case
any section or provision of this Ordinance, or in case any covenant, stipulation, obligation, agreement, act
or action made, assumed or taken
under this Ordinance, is for any reason held to be illegal or invalid, or
is at any time inoperable by reason
of any law, that illegality or inoperability shall not affect any other
section or provision of this Ordinance, or any other covenant, stipulation, obligation, agreement, act or
action made, assumed or taken
under this Ordinance. This Ordinance
shall
be
construed
and
enforced as if such illegal or invalid
or inoperable portion were not contained in it. Any such illegality or
invalidity or inoperability shall not
affect any legal and valid and operable application from time to time,
and each such section, provision,
covenant,
stipulation,
obligation,
agreement, act or action shall be
deemed to be effective, operative,
made or taken in the manner and to
the full extent from time to time
permitted by law.
Section 18. Effective Date. This
Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure for the reasons set
forth in the preambles. Those preambles are made a part hereof. Provided that this Ordinance receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all members elected to this Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest date
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 11, 2005.

Ord. No. 755-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and

The City Record
materials necessary to maintain
Group V high volume copiers, including usage, operational supplies
and equipment, for the various divisions of City government, for a one
year period.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one year of the necessary items of labor and materials
necessary to maintain Group V high
volume copiers, including usage,
operational supplies and equipment,
in the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the various divisions
of City government. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 157035)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 762-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase, lease or lease to
purchase by requirement contract of
various types of heavy duty vehicles
and apparatus for various Divisions
in the Departments of Public Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter

994

May 18, 2005
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of various types of heavy duty vehicles
and apparatus described in File No.
762-05-A with the Clerk of Council in
the estimated sum of $8,400,000, to
be purchased, leased or leased to
purchase by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for various Divisions in the
Departments
of
Public
Service,
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
and Public Safety.
Bids shall be
taken in such manner as to permit
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for a requirements contract for the
entire year. That pursuant to Section 108(b) of the Charter, the purchases, leases or leases to purchase
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using State procedures. The
Director of Public Service may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase or procurement thereunder,
which
purchase
or
procurement,
together with all subsequent purchases or procurements, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies pursuant
to a requisition against such contract duly certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 3. That the Director of
Finance may enter into a lease-purchase arrangement for the heavy
duty vehicles and apparatus with a
bank, leasing company or any other
organization that is not the manufacturer or vendor of the vehicles or
apparatus that submitted a bid for
the sale, lease or lease to purchase
described in Section 1 of this ordinance, provided that: (I) the Director of Finance determines that it is
in the best interest of the City to
enter
into
that
lease-purchase
arrangement, (II) the maximum
term of any lease-purchase arrangement does not exceed ten (10) years,
(III) the aggregate principal obligation of the City under the lease-purchase arrangement does not exceed
$8,900,000, (IV) if the lease-purchase
arrangement provides that the lease
payments are to have a principal
component and an interest component, the maximum interest rate for
the interest component does not
exceed seven percent (7%) per
annum, (V) the obligations of the
City
under
that
lease-purchase
arrangement for fiscal years beginning after December 31, 2005 are
subject to annual appropriations
being made by the City sufficient to
pay the lease payments and to meet
the other obligations of the City
under that lease-purchase arrangement in each of these fiscal years,

May 18, 2005
and (VI) the obligations of the City
thereunder for the current fiscal
year do not exceed $750,000, which
amount is hereby appropriated for
that
purpose.
The
Director
of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver, for and on behalf of the City
and in the Director’s official capacity, such written agreements, certificates and instruments as may be
necessary or appropriate in order to
provide
for
that
lease-purchase
arrangement under the terms and
conditions authorized herein and
containing such additional terms
and conditions as are acceptable to
the Director of Finance and the
Director of Law. Those agreements
may include a lease-purchase agreement, an escrow agreement for the
deposit by the lessor of the purchase
price of the vehicles and apparatus,
acceptance certificates evidencing
the City’s acceptance of the vehicles
from the vendors, and certificates as
to insurance, tax compliance and
related matters necessary to carry
out the transaction. The lease-purchase arrangement may provide that
the lease payments are to have a
principal component and an interest
component and that the interest
component is to be excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes. In that event, the Director
of Finance and other City officials,
as appropriate, are authorized to
covenant on behalf of the City that
(I) the City will use and will
restrict the use of the vehicles and
apparatus leased by the City under
the lease-purchase agreement and
will use, and will restrict the investment of, any proceeds of the leasepurchase agreement in such manner
and to such extent as may be necessary so that the lease-purchase
agreement will not constitute a private activity bond, an arbitrage
bond or a hedge bond under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the “Code”), or be treated
other than as an obligation to which
Section 103(a) of the Code applies,
and (II) the City will take or cause
to be taken such actions that may
be required of it for the interest
component of the lease payments to
be and to remain excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes and the City will not take
or authorize to be taken any actions
that would adversely affect that
exclusion. In the event that the City
enters into such a lease-purchase
arrangement, the Director of Public
Service may assign to the lessor
under the lease-purchase arrangement, or the lessor’s designee, the
rights of the City under the contracts for purchase of the vehicles
and apparatus authorized in Section
1 of this ordinance. The Director of
Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officials of the City are
authorized to sign and deliver any
documents, certificates and other
instruments as the Director of Law
determines are necessary and appropriate to carry out the transactions authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That it is hereby found
and determined that all formal actions
of this Council concerning and relating to the passage of this Ordinance
where adopted in open meetings of
this Council, and any of its committees that resulted in such formal
action were in meetings open to the
public in compliance with the law.

The City Record
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 11, 2005.

Ord. No. 767-05.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development
Block Grant funds and Federal
HOME funds for the operation of the
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs; and to enter into one or more
contracts with various agencies to
implement these programs.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 31 and 2005
Federal HOME grant funds, from
the United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Community
Development
Block
Grant
funds
from Fund No. 14 SF 031 in the
amount of $2,060,000, and Federal
HOME Program funds from Fund 13
SF 236 in the amount of $1,010,518,
Request 149503, in the total amount
of $3,070,518 are appropriated for the
operation of the Low Interest Loan
and Grant Programs, including all
related services. The Low Interest
Loan and Grant Programs include
Repair-A-Home (RAH), Corrective
Action Grant, Afford-A-Home (AAH),
Senior Home Owners Assistance Program (SHAP), Paint Refund Program, Housewarming, Furnace Repair, Home Maintenance Assistance
Program (HMAP), and American
Dream
Downpayment
Assistance
Program.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with various non-profit agencies,
rehabilitation
service
providers, tenants, homeowners, and
entities providing services necessary to process loans and grants to
implement the Low Interest Loan
and Grant Programs in the City of
Cleveland.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
under the programs and to utilize
the repayments, and other program
income in a revolving fund for additional expenditures under these programs and administrative expenses,
which
repayments
and
program
income are appropriated for those
purposes.
Section 4. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes,
naming the City of Cleveland as
payee, and mortgages, naming the
City of Cleveland as mortgagee, and
any other security instrument executed to evidence and secure repayment of loans made under this program.

995

63
Section 5. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into forbearance
agreements with any recipient of a
validly existing loan administered
by the City, and to charge and
accept fees to cover costs incurred
in the preparation of loan documents, closing, and servicing costs.
Such fees shall be deposited into
Fund No. 14 and are hereby appropriated for the purposes of the Low
Interest Loan and Grant Program.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 769-05.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into one or more
contracts with Cleveland Action to
Support Housing, Inc. (CASH) for
administrative costs to implement
housing rehabilitation, new housing
construction and commercial redevelopment loan programs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with Cleveland Action to Support
Housing,
Inc.
(CASH)
for
administrative costs to implement
housing rehabilitation, new housing
construction and commercial redevelopment loan programs in the City
of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the aggregate cost
of the contracts shall not exceed
$500,000.00, and shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 14 SF 030 and 14 SF 031,
Request No. 125798.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 770-05.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into or amend
contracts with various social service
agencies, community development or
local development corporations and
private for profit entities; to enter
into or amend memorandums of
understanding with various City of
Cleveland departments to implement

64
the City’s community development
programs; and to expend funds for
the operation of programs administered by the Department of Community Development.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 31 from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland has approved the Year
31 Community Development Block
Grant Plan as set forth in File No.
71-05-A, pursuant to Ordinance No.
71-05, passed March 28, 2005; and
Whereas, in prior Block Grant
years, the Council has approved
Block Grant Plans; and
Whereas, the Block Grant Plans
as approved commit funds to Neighborhood
Development
Activities
(“NDA”), which are CDBG eligible
activities proposed by the various
Council members; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development, after receiving the approval stated in Section 4 below, is authorized to enter
into or amend contracts with various social service agencies, community development or local development corporations, private for profit entities, State of Ohio, Cuyahoga
County, Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority, Cleveland Municipal
School District, Regional Transit
Authority, Northeast Ohio Regional
Sewer District, Cleveland Metroparks, and such other governmental
entities as defined under the Ohio
Revised Code to implement activities and programs that are eligible
under the Community Development
Block Grant (“CDBG”) Program and
are consistent with the City’s Community Development objectives and
policies.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development, after receiving the approval stated in Section 4 below, is authorized to enter
into or amend memorandums of
understanding with various City
departments to implement activities
and programs that are eligible
under the CDBG Program and are
consistent with the City’s Community Development objectives and policies.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development, after receiving the approval stated in Section 4 below, is authorized to expend
NDA funds for any CDBG eligible
Programs administered by the Department of Community Development including entering into contract
with
rehabilitation
service
providers, tenants, homeowners, and
entities providing services necessary to process loans and grants to
implement the Low Interest Loan
and Grant Programs, Paint Refund
Program and other programs administered by the Department of Community Development.
Section 4. That prior to entering
into or amending those contracts or
memorandums of understanding, or
expending any funds, the Director
of Community Development shall
receive written approval from the
Council member whose ward line
item is to fund the activity or program, provided that the amount for

The City Record
such activity or program does not
exceed the amount allocated for the
Council member’s ward pursuant to
the relevant Community Development Block Grant plan.
Section 5. That the cost of the contracts, memorandums of understanding and expenditures for the programs administered by the Department of Community Development
shall not exceed $8,400,000.00 and
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 14 SF
028, 14 SF 029, 14 SF 030 and 14 SF
031.
Section 6. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into or
amend contracts with the entities
administering the NDA program
that generated program income in
an amount not to exceed that generated
program
income
and
to
expend funds for the programs
administered by the Department of
Community Development that generated
program
income
in
an
amount not to exceed that generated program income all to be paid
from the revolving fund in Fund 14.
Section 7. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes
naming the City of Cleveland as
payee, and mortgages, naming the
City of Cleveland as mortgagee, and
any other security instrument executed to evidence and secure repayment of loans made under this program.
Section 8. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter in forbearance agreements with any recipient of a validly existing loan administered by the
City, and to charge and accept fees
and to expend such fees to cover
costs incurred in the preparation of
loan documents, closing, and servicing costs.
Such fees shall be
deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 14.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 783-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 485-03,
passed March 31, 2003; and authorizing the Director of Finance to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. 61226 with Oracle Corporation, to
extend the term for not to exceed
two years, or alternatively, to enter
into a new contract or contracts for
the software licenses and products
for a period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 485-03,
passed March 31, 2003, authorized
the Director of Finance to enter into
Contract No. 61226 for the acquisition of Oracle software licenses and
not more than twenty additional
Oracle Corporation products both as
the Director of Finance determines
necessary from time to time during
a two-year period and for the purchase of maintenance and support

996

May 18, 2005
services for the software licenses
and any additional Oracle products
acquired; and
Whereas, to realize costs savings
and to align with future web-based
applications, including the Kronos
Time and Attendance System, and
Accella Permitting and Code Enforcement applications which will
require Oracle licenses to operate
the City desires to extend the term
of the contract for an additional two
years; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 485-03, passed March 31,
2003, is amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That it is determined
that the within commodities and services are non-competitive and cannot be secured from any source
other
than
Oracle
Corporation.
Therefore, the Director of Finance
is authorized to enter into one or
more agreements or contract extensions with said company, under the
terms of Oracle’s March 18, 2003 proposal, for the acquisition of Oracle
software licenses and of not more
than twenty (20) additional Oracle
Corporation products, both as the
Director of Finance determines necessary from time to time during a
period not exceeding four (4) years,
in total at a cost of not to exceed
$150,000 per year, or alternatively, to
enter into a new contract or contracts for a two-year period for the
software licenses and products, also
at a cost of not to exceed $150,000
per year, and for the purchase of
maintenance and support services
for the software licenses and any
additional Oracle products acquired,
for a period of one (1) year from
the licenses and products acquisition date, with not to exceed four
(4) options, exercisable in writing
by the Director of Finance, to renew
for consecutive one (1) year terms.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 485-03, passed
March 31, 2003, is repealed.
Section 3. That for the acquisition
of the software licenses and additional products, the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
an amendment to Contract No. 61226
with Oracle Corporation to implement the amendment authorized in
Section 1 by extending the term of
the existing contract for an additional two-year period, or alternatively, to enter into a new contract
or contracts for a two-year period
commencing in May 2005, also as
authorized in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
4.
That
the
contract
amendment or the new two-year contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

The City Record

May 18, 2005

65

Ord. No. 829-05.
By Council Members Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of various on-road vehicles and off-road equipment, cabs, bodies, and accessories, equipment and other aftermarket items necessary to
equip the vehicles authorized for their intended purposes, including labor and materials necessary for vehicle and
boat rehabilitation for the various divisions of City government.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to make one or more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of
one year for the necessary items of various on-road vehicles and off-road equipment, cabs, bodies, and accessories,
equipment and other aftermarket items necessary to equip the vehicles authorized for their intended purposes,
including labor and materials necessary for vehicle and boat rehabilitation, in the estimated sum of $11,349,048.00,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the various divisions of City
government, as described below:
General Fund
Item
Number
3

Extended Est.
Item Description

User

Quantity

Est. Cost

Cost
23,000

Cargo Van, Full-Size

Aging

1

23,000

43

Passenger Car, Compact-Size

Environment

2

15,500

31,000

47

Pick-Up

Health

1

23,000

23,000

13

Boom Lift w/Trailer

Eng. & Const.

1

90,000

90,000

14

Welder

Eng. & Const.

1

15,000

15,000

20

Pick-Up

MVM

2

25,000

50,000

16

Passenger Car, Compact-Size

MVM (City-Wide)

14

12,000

168,000

17

Passenger Car, Mid-Size

MVM (City-Wide)

12

16,000

192,000

18

Passenger Car, Full-Size

MVM (City-Wide)

3

23,000

69,000

19

SUV, 4X4

MVM (City-Wide)

5

27,000

135,000

22

Pick-Up

Streets

3

30,000

90,000

31

Salt Spreader Insert

Streets

3

9,000

27,000

34

Arrow Board

Streets

4

6,000

24,000

4

Pick-Up

Waste Collection

4

25,000

100,000

9

Sweeper/Scrubber

Waste Collection

1

35,000

35,000

11

Skid-Steer Loader w/Attachments

Waste Collection

1

60,000

60,000

82

Pick-Up Crew Cab

Park Maintenance

6

28,000

168,000

83

Cab/Chassis w/Dump-Spreader-Plow, 4X4

Park Maintenance

4

60,000

240,000

85

Cab/Chassis w/12-15cy Packer Body

Park Maintenance

3

85,000

255,000

89

Tractor Attachments

Park Maintenance

10

4,750

47,500

80

Brush Chipper

Park Maintenance

3

35,000

105,000

91

Stump Cutter

Park Maintenance

2

30,000

60,000

92

Riding Mower

Park Maintenance

3

9,000

27,000

93

Truckster

Park Maintenance

3

17,000

51,000

94

Mobile Stage

Park Maintenance

1

55,000

55,000

95

Trailer

Park Maintenance

6

5,500

33,000

99

Mower

Park Maintenance

6

6,000

36,000

78

Pick-Up

Property Mgt.

1

24,000

24,000

79

Cargo Van, Full-Size

Property Mgt.

3

27,000

81,000

73

Pick-Up

Recreation

1

23,000

23,000

74

15-Passenger Van

Recreation

5

24,000

120,000

75

Cargo Van, Full-Size

Recreation

1

32,000

32,000

77

Snow Blower/Thrower

Recreation

1

7,500

7,500

70

SUV, 4X4

EMS

3

27,000

81,000

40

Pick-Up

House of Corrections

1

25,000

25,000

42

Prisoner Van

House of Corrections

3

30,000

90,000

48

Passenger Car, Full-Size, w/Police Pkg.

Police

80

27,000

2,160,000

49

Passenger Car, Mid-Size, w/Police Pkg.

Police

20

16,000

320,000

50

SUV, 4X4

Police

2

27,000

54,000

53

Prisoner Van

Police

2

40,000

80,000

54

Cab/Chassis w/Tow Body

Police

1

75,000

75,000

TOTALS

997

229

5,382,000

The City Record

66

May 18, 2005

Enterprise Fund
Item
Number

Extended Est.
Item Description

User

Quantity

Est. Cost

Cost

Passenger Car, Station Wagon

Water

2

13,500.00

27,000.00

SUV, 4X4

Water

3

22,000.00

66,000.00

Pick-Up, 1/4 ton

Water

3

16,500.00

49,500.00

Pick-Up, 1/2 ton

Water

9

16,700.00

150,300.00

Pick-Up, 3/4 ton

Water

4

17,500.00

70,000.0

Pick-Up, 4X4 w/valve turner

Water

1

40,000.00

40,000.00

Cargo Van, Mini-Van

Water

2

25,500.00

51,000.00

Cargo Van, Full Size

Water

16

22,000.00

352,000.00

Cab/Chassis w/USV, Medium

Water

1

45,000.00

45,000.00

Cab/Chassis w/Dump

Water

1

51,000.00

51,000.00

Cab/Chassis w/Dump

Water

7

90,000.00

630,000.00

Air Compressor

Water

11

19,000.00

209,000.00

Arrow Board

Water

4

4,500.00

18,000.00

Sidewalk Plow

Water

1

20,000.00

20,000.00

Trailer

Water

4

11,000.00

44,000.00

SUV, 4X4

Water Pollution Control

3

26,000.00

78,000.00

Cab/Chassis w/Flat Bed

Water Pollution Control

1

70,000.00

70,000.00

Sewer Cleaning Machine

Water Pollution Control

1

90,000.00

90,000.00

Backhoe w/Impactor

Water Pollution Control

2

110,000.00

220,000.00

Trailer

Water Pollution Control

2

14,000.00

28,000.00

Crew Cab 4X4 Pick-Up Trucks

Water Pollution Control

2

27,000.00

54,000.00

Sweeper/Scrubber

Water Pollution Control

1

37,500.00

37,500.00

Passenger Car, Mid-Size

Cleveland Public Power

2

21,000.00

42,000.00

SUV, 4X4

Cleveland Public Power

6

28,000.00

168,000.00

Pick-Up

Cleveland Public Power

1

25,000.00

25,000.00

Cargo Van, Mini-Van

Cleveland Public Power

4

26,000.00

104,000.00
212,400.00

Cargo Van, Full Size

Cleveland Public Power

6

35,400.00

Step Van

Cleveland Public Power

1

48,000.00

48,000.00

Cab/Chassis w/USV, Medium

Cleveland Public Power

4

38,000.00

152,000.00

Cab/Chassis w/Bucket

Cleveland Public Power

3

118,250.00

354,750.00

Cab/Chassis w/Digger-Derrick

Cleveland Public Power

2

182,000.00

364,000.00

Pole Trailer/Dinkey

Cleveland Public Power

3

8,100.00

24,300.00

Snow Removal Vehicles

Airport

6

345,383.00

2,072,298.00

TOTALS

119
GRAND TOTAL:

$5,967,048.00
$11,349,048.00

Bids shall be taken in such manner as to permit an award to be made for all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of Control determines.

Alternate bids

for a period less than a year may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be paid from Fund Nos. 11 SF 006, 52 SF 001, 54 SF
001, 58 SF 001, and 60 SF 001.
Section 3. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged against the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall certify the amount of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all
later purchases shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by the Director of Finance. (RL 154160)
Section 4. That pursuant to Section 108(b) of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The Director of Public Service may sign all documents with the State of Ohio or any of its political subdivisions that are necessary to make the purchases and
may enter into contract or contracts with the vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 5. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 11, 2005.

998

May 18, 2005
Ord. No. 911-05.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 4. (James O.
Murako.)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council
expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to peddling upon public rights
of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 4; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by, Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances to allow
each
persons
named
below
to
engage in peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 4: James O.
Muruako.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 912-05.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 3. (Migel Campbell)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council
expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to peddling upon public rights
of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 3; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by, Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances to allow
each
persons
named
below
to

The City Record
engage in peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 3: Migel
Campbell.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 918-05.
By
Council
Members
Conwell,
Pierce Scott and Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
University Circle, Inc. to stretch
banners on Stokes Boulevard for the
period from May 18, 2005 to June 18,
2005, inclusive, publicizing Parade
the Circle Celebration.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to University Circle
Inc. to install, maintain and remove
banners on Stokes Boulevard, for
the period from May 18, 2005 to June
18, 2005, inclusive. Said banner shall
be approved by the Director of Public Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

999

67
Ord. No. 919-05.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Mt.
Haven
Missionary
Baptist
Church to stretch a banner on Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive, for the
period from May 9, 2005 to June 5,
2005, inclusive, publicizing the 3rd
Annual Taste of Mt. Haven in Mt.
Pleasant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to Mt. Haven Missionary Baptist Church to install,
maintain and remove a banner on
Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive, for
the period from May 9, 2005 to June
5, 2005, inclusive. Said banner shall
be approved by the Director of Public Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 920-05.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Hessler Neighborhood Association to encroach into the right-ofway of Ford Drive at Hessler Road
with one banner to be attached to
Cleveland Public Power utility poles
(by separate permission) for the
period from May 14, 2005 to May 24,
2005
inclusive,
publicizing
the
Hessler Street Fair.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore

68
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 623.13 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to Hessler Neighborhood Association to encroach into
the right-of-way of Ford Drive at
Hessler Road with one banner to be
attached to Cleveland Public Power
utility poles (by separate permission) for the period from May 14,
2005 to May 24, 2005 inclusive, publicizing the Hessler Street Fair.
Said banner shall be approved by
the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
shall
be
maintained
under
the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banners and said
banners shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 922-05.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Cintron, Gordon, Brady and Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Tremont West Development Corporation for Leadership
Collaborative through the use of
Ward 13, 14, 15, 19, 20 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Tremont West Development
Corporation for $2,500 for a Westside Leadership Collaborative.

The City Record
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $2,500 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

Ord. No. 923-05.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency ordinance limiting
the use of Estabrook Park to recreational activities that are consistent
with the intended purpose of Estabrook Park; prohibiting the driving
and parking of vehicles on the baseball field or football field; prohibiting the construction of temporary
entertainment structures necessary
for shows and rides; and prohibiting
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties from issuing any permits contrary to this ordinance and
revoking any existing permits contrary to this ordinance.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland is
currently
investing
hundreds
of
thousands of dollars to improve
Estabrook Park; and
Whereas, such improvements include improvements to the baseball
fields and football field; and
Whereas, the City has an interest
in ensuring that the improvements
to Estabrook Park are maintained
in order that residents may utilize
Estabrook Park for recreational
activities; and
Whereas, in the past, uses of
Estabrook Park that are contrary to
intended recreational activities have
resulted in damage to the baseball
fields and football field; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the use of Estabrook Park is hereby limited to
recreational activities that are consistent with the intended purpose of
Estabrook Park. No person, firm, or
entity shall drive upon or park a
vehicle on the baseball field or football field of Estabrook Park, with
the exception of City employees or

1000

May 18, 2005
the City’s contractors performing
maintenance
and/or
improvement
services, and no person, firm, or
entity shall construct temporary
entertainment structures necessary
for shows and rides on the grounds
of Estabrook Park.
The Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties shall not issue any
permit for the use of Estabrook
Park that is contrary to this ordinance. Any existing permits contrary to this ordinance are hereby
permanently revoked.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 9, 2005.
Effective May 12, 2005.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Monday, May 16, 2005
9:30 a.m.
Public Parks, Property & Recreation Committee: CANCELLED.
11:00 a.m.
Employment, Affirmative Action
and Training Committee: Present:
Lewis, Chair; Coats, Reed, Polensek.
Authorized Absence: Conwell, Vice
Chair; Cintron, Johnson.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Jackson, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady,
Britt,
Coats,
Cimperman,
Reed, Westbrook, White, Gordon,
Pierce Scott.
Tuesday, May 17, 2005
10:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Gordon,
Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair; Cintron, Coats, Lewis, Zone, Reed,
Pierce Scott. Authorized Absence:
Jones. Pro-tem: White.
Wednesday, May 18, 2005
10:00 a.m.
Public Safety Committee: Present:
Present: Reed, Chair; Britt, Vice
Chair; Brady, Kelley, Conwell, Zone.
Authorized Absence: Coats, Jones,
White

The City Record

May 18, 2005

69

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Big Creek Watershed Stormwater Management Project — state fund — Ohio Public Works
Commission — agreements with ODOT, NEORSD and the City of Parma (O 952-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
Cleveland Municipal Court — agreement or memorandum of understanding — clinical
services (O 957-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
Storefront Renovation Program — reimburse eligible administrative costs — agreements
(O 716-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Towing, storage and disposition agreements — amend Sec. 135.42 (O 980-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957

Annual Reports
Cleveland Theater District Development Corporation — 2004 annual report and year-end
financial summary (F 987-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Richard E. Jacobs Group, Inc. — Independent Auditor annual report re: Public Square
North Community Urban Redevelopment Corp., Mall A Community Urban Redevelopment
Corp. & Memorial Park Garage Community Urban Redevelopment Corp. (F 986-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935

Appropriations
Demolition and Board-up Programs — Community Development Block Grant funds (O 653-05) . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs — operation — Community Development Block Grant
funds and Federal HOME funds (O 767-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 995

Assessment Equalization Board
Euclid Ave. — between Public Square & E. 70th St. — estimated assessments — approving
report on objections — Board of Revision of Assessments (O 971-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Euclid Ave. — between Public Square & E. 70th St. — objections to estimated assessments
— time and place for hearing (R 973-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958

Banners
Hessler Neighborhood Association — Hessler Street Fair (O 920-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999
Mt. Haven Missionary Baptist Church — 3rd Annual Taste of Mt. Haven in Mt. Pleasant
(O 919-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999
Mt. Zion/McCreary Center — church carnival (O 985-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
University Circle, Inc. — Parade the Circle Celebration (O 918-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999

Board of Control — Convention Center and Stadium Division
Power of One — an evening with Coach Carter — May 19, 2005 — waive rental charge
per C.O. Sec. 133.14(f) (BOC Res. 238-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Pre-White House Conference on Aging — June 6, 2005 — waive rental charge per
C.O. Sec.133.14(f) (BOC Res. 239-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963

Board of Control — Finance Department
Cost Allocation Plan updates — contract per Ord. 239-04 to Maximus, Inc. (BOC Res. 230-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961

1001

The City Record

70

May 18, 2005

Board of Control — Fire Division
Cab / chassis with air / light body — per Ord. 1086-04 — all bids rejected — Dept.
of Public Safety (BOC Res. 237-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963

Board of Control — Health Division
Elevator maintenance and repair — contract per Ord. 1668-04 to KONE Inc. — Dept. of
Public Health (BOC Res. 236-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963

Board of Control — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Food, beverages, condiments and paper products for Camp Forbes — contract per
Ord. 2245-04 to Hillcrest Food Service — Division of Recreation (BOC Res. 243-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
HVAC/R materials and equipment — per Ord. 1116-02 — all bids rejected — Division of
Property Management (BOC Res. 240-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Meals for summer food program, 2005 — contract per Ord. 2245-04 to Tom Paige Catering Co.
Division of Recreation (BOC Res. 242-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Pool chemicals — contract per Ord. 471-05 to The Whitmer Company — Division of Recreation
(BOC Res. 241-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Power of One — an evening with Coach Carter — May 19, 2005 — waive rental charge
per C.O. Sec. 133.14(f) (BOC Res. 238-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Pre-White House Conference on Aging — June 6, 2005 — waive rental charge per
C.O. Sec. 133.14(f) (BOC Res. 239-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Cost Allocation Plan updates — contract per Ord. 239-04 to Maximus, Inc. — Dept. of
Finance (BOC Res. 230-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961

Board of Control — Property Management Division
HVAC/R materials and equipment — per Ord. 1116-02 — all bids rejected — Dept. of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 240-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963

Board of Control — Public Auditorium
Power of One — an evening with Coach Carter — May 19, 2005 — waive rental charge
per C.O. Sec. 133.14(f) (BOC Res. 238-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Pre-White House Conference on Aging — June 6, 2005 — waive rental charge per
C.O. Sec. 133.14(f) (BOC Res. 239-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963

Board of Control — Public Health Department
Elevator maintenance and repair — contract per Ord. 1668-04 to KONE Inc. — Division of
Health (BOC Res. 236-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Distribution mains — Area 2005-A, cleaning and cement mortar lining of — contract
per Ord. 2293-04 to Terrace Construction Company, Inc. — Division of Water, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 231-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961
Distribution mains — Area 2005-B, cleaning and cement mortar lining of — contract
per Ord. 2293-04 to Utilicon Corp. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 233-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Cab / chassis with air / light body — per Ord. 1086-04 — all bids rejected — Division of
Fire (BOC Res. 237-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963

1002

May 18, 2005

The City Record

71

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Asphalt rollers and trailers — contract per Ord. 1481-04 to Hertz Equipment Rental
Corporation (BOC Res. 234-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962
Cutters, plasma — contract per Ord. 1481-04 to O.E. Meyer Co. (BOC Res. 235-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Distribution mains — Area 2005-A, cleaning and cement mortar lining of — contract
per Ord. 2293-04 to Terrace Construction Company, Inc. — Division of Water
(BOC Res. 231-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961
Distribution mains — Area 2005-B, cleaning and cement mortar lining of — contract
per Ord. 2293-04 to Utilicon Corp. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 233-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962
Water mains (west), repair of — contract per Ord. 2292-04 to Utilicon Corp. — Division
of Water (BOC Res. 232-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962

Board of Control — Recreation Division
Food, beverages, condiments and paper products for Camp Forbes — contract per Ord.
2245-04 to Hillcrest Food Service — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 243-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Meals for summer food program, 2005 — contract per Ord. 2245-04 to Tom Paige Catering Co.
Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 242-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Pool chemicals — contract per Ord. 471-05 to The Whitmer Company — Dept. of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 241-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Asphalt rollers and trailers — contract per Ord. 1481-04 to Hertz Equipment Rental
Corporation — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 234-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962
Cutters, plasma — contract per Ord. 1481-04 to O.E. Meyer Co. — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 235-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962
Elevator maintenance and repair — contract per Ord. 1668-04 to KONE Inc. — Division of
Health, Dept. of Public Health (BOC Res. 236-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Food, beverages, condiments and paper products for Camp Forbes — contract per Ord.
2245-04 to Hillcrest Food Service — Division of Recreation, Dept. of
Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 243-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Meals for summer food program, 2005 — contract per Ord. 2245-04 to Tom Paige Catering Co.
Division of Recreation, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 242-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Pool chemicals — contract per Ord. 471-05 to The Whitmer Company — Division of
Recreation, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 241-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Water mains (west), repair of — contract per Ord. 2292-04 to Utilicon Corp. — Division
of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 232-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962

Board of Control — Water Division
Distribution mains — Area 2005-A, cleaning and cement mortar lining of — contract
per Ord. 2293-04 to Terrace Construction Company, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 231-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961
Distribution mains — Area 2005-B, cleaning and cement mortar lining of — contract
per Ord. 2293-04 to Utilicon Corp. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 233-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962
Water mains (west), repair of — contract per Ord. 2292-04 to Utilicon Corp. — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 232-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Adams Avenue, 10004-6, (Ward 8) – Elain and Terrence McKellar, owners — appeal denied and
adopted on 5/16/05 (Cal. 05-54) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Bayliss Avenue, 6712-18, (Ward 7) – Victor Bondar, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
5/16/05 (Cal. 05-76). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967

1003

The City Record

72

May 18, 2005

Dexter Place, 1545, (Ward 14) – Urban Properties LLC, owner and John Williams, agent —
appeal heard on 5/16/05 (Cal. 05-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
East 105th Street, 1082, (Ward 8) – Maher Ali, owner — appeal dismissed on 5/16/05
(Cal. 05-79) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
East 131st Street, 3596, (Ward 3) – Minnie Adams and Tyrone Reeder, owners — appeal
postponed to 6/6/05 on 5/16/05 (Cal. 05-41) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Lansing Avenue, 6402, (Ward 12) – Louis Sainato, owner and Patricia Cole, d.b.a. Patia’s
Child Care Center appeal postponed to 6/6/05 on 5/16/05 (Cal. 03-35) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Lee Road, 4098, (Ward 1) – Gary Thomas, owner — appeal dismissed on 5/16/05 (Cal. 05-105) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Morris Avenue, 8912, (Ward 7) – Cleveland Municipal School District, owner and
Lester Cumberlander, agent — appeal heard on 5/16/05 (Cal. 05-108) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
St. Clair Avenue, 3400, (Ward 13) – The Hong Kong Trading Center and Sin Mun Chan, owner —
appeal heard on 5/16/05 (Cal. 05-77) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Tibor, Sarossy — appeal dismissed on 5/16/05 (Cal. 05-75) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
West 10th Street, 2061, (Ward 13) – Bosan’s Restaurant, Inc., owner c/o Ricardo Sandoval —
appeal heard on 5/2/05 (Cal. 05-69) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816
West 19th Street, 2086, (Ward 13) – Martin McBride Niagra Homes, owner and Michael
McBride, agent — appeal heard on 5/16/05 (Cal. 05-106) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Whitman Avenue, 4300, (Ward 13) – Larry Brichacek, owner — appeal dismissed on 5/16/05
(Cal. 05-78) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #1, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-94). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #10, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and Rysar
Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-103). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #11, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and Rysar
Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-104). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #12, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and Rysar
Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-82). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #13, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and Rysar
Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-83). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #14, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and Rysar
Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-84). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #15, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and Rysar
Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-85). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #16, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and Rysar
Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-86). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #17, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and Rysar
Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-87). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #18, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and Rysar
Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-88). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #19, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and Rysar
Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-89). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965

1004

May 18, 2005

The City Record

73

East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #2, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-95). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #20, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and Rysar
Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-90). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #21, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and Rysar
Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-91). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #22, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and Rysar
Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-92). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #23, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and Rysar
Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-93). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #24, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and Rysar
Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-81). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #3, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-96). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #4, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-97). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #5, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #6, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #7, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-100). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #8, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-101). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
East 45th Street, 1415, Unit #9, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Housing Network and
Rysar Properties, co-owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent — appeal to be heard on
5/31/05 (Cal. 05-102). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Main Avenue, 1151, (Ward 13) – Flats Development Incorporated and Dona Votaw, agent —
appeal to be heard on 5/31/05 (Cal. 05-120). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Moulton Avenue, 11815, (Ward 9) – Cleveland Municipal School District, owner and Lester
Cumberlander, agent — appeal to be heard on 5/31/05 (Cal. 05-109) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Pierpont Avenue, 10305, (Ward 8) – Cresthaven Development Incorporated, owner — appeal
to be heard on 5/31/05 (Cal. 05-111). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Spafford Road, 7925, (Ward 12) – Gwendolyn Goins, owner — appeal to be heard on 5/31/05
(Cal. 05-107) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Tate Avenue, 2115, (Ward 16) – Paul Batt, owner — appeal to be heard on 5/31/05
(Cal. 05-110) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966

Bonds
Municipal parks and recreation facilities — issuance and sale of bonds — $6,380,000
(O 720-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976
Municipal street system — issuance of unvoted general obligation bonds — $16,900,000
(O 723-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 982

1005

The City Record

74

May 18, 2005

Public service facilities — improve — issuance of unvoted general obligation bonds —
$7,540,000 (O 722-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Residential and neighborhood development — issuance and sale of bonds — $7,180,000
(O 721-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Water Revenue Bonds — issuance and sale — $100,000,000 (O 754-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989

Building and Housing Department
Demolition and Board-up Programs — appropriation — Community Development Block Grant
funds (O 653-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975

Case Western Reserve University
Ambler Park — lease a portion of property — site improvements as an entryway
(O 965-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951

City of Cleveland Bids
Bump Taylor Football Field site improvements — Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties — Division of Research, Planning and Development — per Ord. 278-05 — bid
due May 25, 2005(advertised 5/11/2005 and 5/18/2005) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Cudell Clock Tower renovations (Phase 2) — Department of Public Service
Division of Architecture — per Ord. 2151-03 — bid due June 16, 2005(advertised
5/18/2005 and 5/25/2005). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
Electronic protection — Department of Finance — per Ord. 634-05 — bid due June 3,
2005(advertised 5/18/2005 and 5/25/2005) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Kerruish Park site improvements — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties Division of Research, Planning and Development — per Ord. 2151-03 — bid due June 1,
2005(advertised 5/18/2005 and 5/25/2005) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Lee Road Rehabilitation / Mill & Fill Project — Department of Public Service — Division
of Engineering and Construction — per Ord. 828-05 — bid due May 25, 2005(advertised
5/11/2005 and 5/18/2005). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Meters and metering equipment — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Cleveland
Public Power — per Ord. 1630-92 — bid due June 17, 2005(advertised 5/18/2005 and 5/25/2005). . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
Overhead door maintenance and repair — Department of Finance — per Ord. 552-05 — bid due
June 2, 2005(advertised 5/18/2005 and 5/25/2005) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Plumbing, water, sewer and gas line repair and replacement — Department of Public
Utilities — Division of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 2289-04 — bid due June 16,
2005(advertised 5/18/2005 and 5/25/2005) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
Streetlighting materials — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Cleveland Public
Power — per Ord. 1630-92 — bid due June 23, 2005(advertised 5/18/2005 and 5/25/2005) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
Taxiways, ramps, runway improvements (Runway 10-28 Safety Improvements, Phase 1-Part A)
Department of Port Control — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport —
per Ord. 2376-02 — bid due June 8, 2005(advertised 5/18/2005 and 5/25/2005) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968

City Planning Commission
E. 55th St. (west side) & E. 49th St. (east side) — Change the zoning — RA2 Townhouse
District and a ‘1’ Height District (O 784-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Runway configurations — construction (O 462-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972

Cleveland Housing Network
Low income housing units — contracts (O 714-05-T) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961

1006

May 18, 2005

The City Record

75

Cleveland Municipal Court
Clinical services — agreement or memorandum of understanding (O 957-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947

Cleveland Municipal School District
Moulton Ave. — Land Reutilization Program (O 591-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973

Cleveland Public Power
Paper products for billing (O 358-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Tree trimming — around electrical wires and streetlights (O 357-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Utility poles — test, remove, and replace (O 948-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945

Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority
Dock 32 & E. 9th St. pier — lease certain properties — 600 parking spaces (O 966-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Tops Market Grocery — 18501 Neff Rd. — construction — Osborne Capital, Inc.
(O 861-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960

Codified Ordinances
Disposal of used tires, reporting — amend Sec. 551.38 (O 955-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
Parking place — definition — amend Section 401.34 (O 981-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Peddling on private property — amend Sec. 675.05 (O 1536-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Red light and speeding violators — automated cameras to impose civil penalties — amend
Sec. 413.031 (O 940-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Towing, storage and disposition agreements — amend Sec. 135.42 (O 980-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957

Communications
Cleveland Theater District Development Corporation — 2004 annual report and year-end
financial summary (F 987-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Ohio Department of Transportation — copy of co-operative contract — Project No. 267(05)
West 53rd Street (F 988-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Richard E. Jacobs Group, Inc. — Independent Auditor annual report re: Public Square
North Community Urban Redevelopment Corp., Mall A Community Urban Redevelopment
Corp. & Memorial Park Garage Community Urban Redevelopment Corp. (F 986-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935

Community Development
Anti-predatory lending and foreclosure prevention assistance — appropriate — CDBG
(O 711-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Barber Ave. & W. 20th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Israel Colon (O 290-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Cleveland Action to Support Housing, Inc. (CASH) — contracts — housing rehabilitation,
new housing construction and commercial redevelopment loan programs (O 769-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 995
Cleveland Housing Network — contracts — low income housing units (O 714-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Community development programs — contracts — social service agencies, community
development or local development corporations and private for profit entities
(O 770-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 995
Community garden program — non-profit agencies — contracts (O 715-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976
Demolition and Board-up Programs — appropriation — Community Development Block Grant
funds (O 653-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
E. 176th St. new housing development project — grading and paving, constructing streets,
sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbing curb ramps, median strips, intersections,
utility boxes, casting adjustments, appurtenances, streetscaping, landscaping,
installing water and sewer mains and connections (O 67-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
E. 93rd St., 3121 — Land Reutilization Program — Jamal Hanini and Salti Salti
(O 2065-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Fair Housing Program — expenses — appropriate CDBG (O 709-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975

1007

The City Record

76

May 18, 2005

Gordon Square Homes, L.P. — contract — Community Development Block Grant Float Loan
Gordon Square Homes apartment project (O 713-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Historic Newton Avenue Apartments — Community Development Block Grant float loan
— Famicos Foundation (O 1529-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Housing, commercial, industrial and real estate development activities — amend contracts
— various agencies (O 856-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Jefferson Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Thomas P. Leneghan (O 724-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Kamm’s Corners area — public parking lot — extend the lease agreement — Kamm’s Corners
Development Corporation (O 689-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs — operation — Community Development Block Grant
funds and Federal HOME funds (O 767-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 995
Moulton Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland Municipal School District
(O 591-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
Northeast Neighborhood Development Corporation — agreement — Community Partnership
Program — Ward 10 NEF (O 974-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation — agreement — Home Expo Program —
Ward 10 NEF (O 975-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
ORCA House — social services — Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 803-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Storefront Renovation Program — reimburse eligible administrative costs — agreements
(O 716-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Taxable Urban Renewal Temporary Refunding Bonds — issuance and sale — $4,375,000
— refund and pay (O 943-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Tremont West Development Corporation — Leadership Collaborative — Ward 13,14,15,19,20
NEF (O 922-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Westside Leadership Collaborative of Cleveland Program — amend Ord. 662-05 — Ward 13,
15, 17, 19 and 20 NEF (O 978-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957

Community Development Block Grant Program
Anti-predatory lending and foreclosure prevention assistance — appropriate — CDBG
(O 711-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Demolition and Board-up Programs — appropriation — CDBG (O 653-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Fair Housing Program — expenses — appropriate CDBG (O 709-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Gordon Square Homes, L.P. — contract — Community Development Block Grant Float Loan —
Gordon Square Homes apartment project (O 713-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs — operation — CDBG and Federal HOME funds
(O 767-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 995

Community Relations Board
Fair Housing Program — expenses — appropriate CDBG (O 709-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975

Condolences
Curry, Eugenia J. (R 996-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Leftridge, Lela V. (R 995-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Parker, Loretta (R 998-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Wingfield, Patrick A. (R 997-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936

Congratulations
Bregar, Sr. Laura (R 1003-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Federation of India Commun Associations (R 999-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Jaczkowski, Sr. Mary Helen (R 1000-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Majkrzak, Sr. Joan of Arc (R 1001-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Mecir, OSF, Rev. Joseph (R 1002-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936

1008

May 18, 2005

The City Record

77

Consumer Affairs Department
Anti-predatory lending and foreclosure prevention assistance — appropriate — CDBG
(O 711-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975

Contracts
Cleveland Action to Support Housing, Inc. (CASH) — housing rehabilitation, new housing
construction and commercial redevelopment loan programs (O 769-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 995
Cleveland Housing Network — low income housing units (O 714-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Community garden program — non-profit agencies (O 715-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976
Gordon Square Homes, L.P. — Community Development Block Grant Float Loan — Gordon
Square Homes apartment project (O 713-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Oracle Corp. — amendment to Contract No. 61226 — amend Ord. No. 485-03 (O 783-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 996
Second Growth Institute — Contract No. 56566 — amendment — Economic Development
— Parks, Recreation and Properties (O 2438-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Tastebuds, LLC, dba Tastebuds — loan and a grant — interior renovation — 1400 East
30th Street — restaurant (O 967-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Tops Market Grocery — 18501 Neff Rd. — construction — Osborne Capital, Inc.
(O 861-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960

County Commissioners
Clean Ohio Revitalization grant application — Council’s support — Ohio Department of
Development (R 969-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956

Cuyahoga County
State Homeland Security Program 2005 — grant (O 961-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 949
Urban Area Security Initiative Program 2005 — grant (O 962-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 950
Workforce Investment Act Program 2005 — grant — Ohio Department of Job and Family
Services (O 968-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953

Easements
Big Creek Watershed Stormwater Management Project — state fund — Ohio Public Works
Commission — agreements with ODOT, NEORSD and the City of Parma (O 952-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947

Economic Development Department
Clean Ohio Revitalization grant application — Council’s support — Ohio Department of
Development (R 969-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Downtown Cleveland Partnership — agreement — “Downtown Digs,” A Guide to Living
in Downtown Cleveland Project — Ward 13 NEF (O 976-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Karamu House — grant — African American Cultural Garden — establish — Economic
Development Dept. (O 2408-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Lakeview Square I, Ltd. — contract — acquisition — 11905 Superior Ave. — amend Ord.
476-05 (O 972-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Second Growth Institute — Contract No. 56566 — amendment — Economic Development
— Parks, Recreation and Properties (O 2438-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Tastebuds, LLC, dba Tastebuds — loan and a grant — interior renovation — 1400 East
30th Street — restaurant (O 967-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Tops Market Grocery — 18501 Neff Rd. — construction — Osborne Capital, Inc.
(O 861-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
W. 11th St., 2179 — exterior leasehold improvements — Wimbledon Investments, LLC
(O 859-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Workforce Investment Act Program 2005 — grant — Ohio Department of Job and Family
Services (O 968-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953

1009

The City Record

78

May 18, 2005

Famicos Foundation
Historic Newton Avenue Apartments — Community Development Block Grant float loan
(O 1529-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T

Finance Department
Advizex Technologies — gift — onside data gathering and an analysis (O 941-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Akoura Biometrics — gift — fingerprint protection system (O 631-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Budget requirements — professional consultants (O 642-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Group V high volume copiers — maintain — various divisions (O 755-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 994
Heavy duty vehicles and apparatus — purchase, lease or lease to purchase — various
Divisions — Department of Public Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties,
and Public Safety (O 762-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 994
Mail system — purchase — Division of Printing and Reproduction (O 809-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Moral Claims — pay (O 808-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Municipal parks and recreation facilities — issuance and sale of bonds — $6,380,000
(O 720-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976
Municipal street system — issuance of unvoted general obligation bonds — $16,900,000
(O 723-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 982
Oracle Corp. — amendment to Contract No. 61226 — amend Ord. No. 485-03 (O 783-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 996
Public service facilities — improve — issuance of unvoted general obligation bonds —
$7,540,000 (O 722-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Residential and neighborhood development — issuance and sale of bonds — $7,180,000
(O 721-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Taxable Urban Renewal Temporary Refunding Bonds — issuance and sale — $4,375,000
— refund and pay (O 943-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Water Revenue Bonds — issuance and sale — $100,000,000 (O 754-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Winncom Technologies Corp. — gift — capacity wireless link — Dep. of Finance
(O 942-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937

Gifts
Advizex Technologies — onside data gathering and an analysis — Dep. of Finance
(O 941-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Akoura Biometrics — fingerprint protection system (O 631-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Earl B. Turner Recreation Center (play structure) — Park Structure and Snider
& Associates (O 964-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Winncom Technologies Corp. — capacity wireless link — Dep. of Finance (O 942-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937

Grants
Clean Ohio Revitalization grant application — Council’s support — Ohio Department of
Development (R 969-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
EMS Training and Equipment Grant 2006 — Ohio Department of Public Safety (O 963-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
EMS/Fire Training 2006 & Equipment Grant — Ohio Department of Public Safety (O 960-05). . . . . . . . . . . . 949
Karamu House — African American Cultural Garden — establish — Economic Development
Dept. (O 2408-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Moms First Program — U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (O 903-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961
Project Safe Neighborhood, Ballistics Identification System — Ohio Department of Public
Safety (O 581-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
State Homeland Security Program 2005 — County of Cuyahoga (O 961-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 949
Urban Area Security Initiative Program 2005 — County of Cuyahoga (O 962-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 950
Workforce Investment Act Program 2005 — Ohio Department of Job and Family Services
(O 968-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953

1010

May 18, 2005

The City Record

79

Health Department
Animal trapping services — purchase — Division of Health (O 959-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 949
Bradley Road Landfill — public improvement of closing — Public Health and Public
Service (O 944-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944
Burials or cremation services — indigent dead — Division of Health (O 953-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
Cleveland Municipal Court — agreement or memorandum of understanding — clinical
services (O 957-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
Inspections of summer food program sites — contracts — Ohio Department of Health
(O 958-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 949
Miles Broadway Health Center — lease certain space — The Ohio State University
Extension — food and nutrition education programs and development programs
(O 956-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
Moms First Program — grant — U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (O 903-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . 961

Karamu House
African American Cultural Garden — establish - grant — Economic Development Dept.
(O 2408-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T

Land Reutilization Program
Barber Ave. & W. 20th St. — Israel Colon (O 290-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
E. 93rd St., 3121 — Jamal Hanini and Salti Salti (O 2065-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Jefferson Ave. — Thomas P. Leneghan (O 724-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Moulton Ave. — Cleveland Municipal School District (O 591-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
St. Clair Avenue, 10003-07 — Ricky Aikens (O 2116-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T

Lease Agreement
Kamm’s Corners area — public parking lot — extend the lease agreement — Kamm’s Corners
Development Corporation (O 689-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T

Leases
Ambler Park — lease a portion of property — Case Western Reserve University — site
improvements as an entryway (O 965-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951

Liquor Permits
Broadview Rd., 2071-2075 — transfer (Ward 15) (F 990-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Huron Rd., 1220 — new (Ward 13) (F 989-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Kinsman Ave., 14510 — objection — withdraw (Ward 3) (R 915-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Lakeside Ave., 3232 — objection — withdraw (Ward 13) (R 913-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
Lorain Ave., 14053 - objection ( Ward 21) (R 914-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
Storer Ave., 5004 — objection (Ward 14) (R 977-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Storer Ave., 5004 — transfer (Ward 14) (F 991-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
W. 25th St., 1917 — transfer (Ward 14) (F 992-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935

Loans
Water Supply Revolving Loan Account loan — apply for and accept — Morgan Filter
Rehabilitation Project (O 946-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944

Memoranda of Understanding
Cleveland Municipal Court — agreement or memorandum of understanding — clinical
services (O 957-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947

1011

The City Record

80

May 18, 2005

Community development programs — contracts — social service agencies, community
development or local development corporations and private for profit entities
(O 770-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 995

Miles-Broadway Health Center
Food and nutrition education programs and development programs — lease certain space —
The Ohio State University Extension (O 956-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947

Moral Claims
Moral Claims — pay (O 808-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960

Museums
Steamship William G. Museum — relocate — amendment to the Mather Museum lease
(O 844-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960

Neighborhood Equity Funds
5th Annual Gospel Music Festival — Miles Family YMCA — Ward 2 (O 307-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Downtown Cleveland Partnership — agreement — “Downtown Digs,” A Guide to Living
in Downtown Cleveland Project — Ward 13 (O 976-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
East 97th Street Bulldogs — agreement — Football Youth Program — Ward 7 (O 979-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Northeast Neighborhood Development Corporation — agreement — Community Partnership
Program — Ward 10 (O 974-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation — agreement — Home Expo Program —
Ward 10 (O 975-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
ORCA House — social services — Ward 6 (O 803-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Tremont West Development Corporation — Leadership Collaborative — Ward 13,14,15,19,20
(O 922-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Westside Leadership Collaborative of Cleveland Program — amend Ord. 662-05 — Ward 13,
15, 17, 19 and 20 (O 978-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957

Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
Ohio Department of Transportation — copy of co-operative contract — Project No. 267(05)
West 53rd Street (F 988-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935

Parking
Definition — Parking place — amend Section 401.34 (O 981-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Ambler Park — lease a portion of property — Case Western Reserve University — site
improvements as an entryway (O 965-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Dock 32 & E. 9th St. pier — lease certain properties — 600 parking spaces —
Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority (O 966-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Earl B. Turner Recreation Center (play structure) — gift — Park Structure and Snider
& Associates (O 964-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
East 97th Street Bulldogs — agreement — Football Youth Program — Ward 7 NEF
(O 979-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Estabrook Park — limiting recreational activities (O 923-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Heavy duty vehicles and apparatus — purchase, lease or lease to purchase — various
Divisions — Department of Public Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties,
and Public Safety (O 762-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 994

1012

May 18, 2005

The City Record

81

Second Growth Institute — Contract No. 56566 — amendment — Economic Development
— Parks, Recreation and Properties (O 2438-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Steamship William G. Museum — relocate — amendment to the Mather Museum lease
(O 844-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960

Peddlers
Campbell, Migel (Ward 3) (O 912-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999
Drake, Shaun (Ward 8) (O 982-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Murako, James O. (Ward 4) (O 911-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999
Peddling on private property — amend Sec. 675.05 (O 1536-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T

Permits
Estabrook Park — limiting recreational activities (O 923-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000

Personnel Department
Ohio Safety Incentive Program — authorize participation — workers’ compensation premium
rebate (O 970-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955

Plats
Literary Bluffs, Phase 3 — A Townhouse Residential Development (Ward 13) (F 993-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Slavic Village Subdivision — Replat of the Cloisters (Ward 12) (F 994-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935

Port Control Department
Centralized Deicing Facility Common Use Pad, Deicing Pad 4 — construction (O 465-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Dock 32 & E. 9th St. pier — lease certain properties — 600 parking spaces —
Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority (O 966-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Runway configurations — construction — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(O 462-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Steamship William G. Museum — relocate — amendment to the Mather Museum lease
(O 844-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960

Predatory Lending
Anti-predatory lending and foreclosure prevention assistance — appropriate — CDBG
(O 711-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975

Printing and Reproduction Division
Mail system — purchase (O 809-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960

Public Hearings (Notices)
E. 55th St. (west side) & E. 49th St. (east side) — Change the zoning — RA2 Townhouse
District and a ‘1’ Height District (O 784-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967

Recognition
Turks, Ottoman (R 1004-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936

Resolutions - Miscellaneous
Automobile industry — urging federal government to protect (R 929-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Bi-partisan S. 9 — encourage support — — oppose Workforce Investment Act Plus
(R 925-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Bridgeway’s Playhouse Program for Children and Youth — opposing funding cuts (R 926-05) . . . . . . . . . . . 970

1013

The City Record

82

May 18, 2005

Defense Finance & Accounting Services office (DFAS) — retain important federal defense
jobs (R 983-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959
Expungement Reform Legislation — urging the State legislature to pass (R 924-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Guns accessibility — young people — investigate (R 921-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Medicaid (parent) — Disability Medical Assistance program — fully preserve (R 984-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959
Tax and expenditure limitation proposals — oppose (R 927-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970

Safety Department
EMS Training and Equipment Grant 2006 — grant — Ohio Department of Public Safety
(O 963-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
EMS/Fire Training 2006 & Equipment Grant — Ohio Department of Public Safety (O 960-05). . . . . . . . . . . . 949
Heavy duty vehicles and apparatus — purchase, lease or lease to purchase — various
Divisions — Department of Public Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties,
and Public Safety (O 762-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 994
Peddling on private property — amend Sec. 675.05 (O 1536-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Project Safe Neighborhood, Ballistics Identification System — grant — Ohio Department
of Public Safety (O 581-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
State Homeland Security Program 2005 — grant — County of Cuyahoga (O 961-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 949
Urban Area Security Initiative Program 2005 — grant — County of Cuyahoga (O 962-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 950

Service Department
Bradley Road Landfill — public improvement of closing — Public Health and Public
Service (O 944-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944
Carroll Ave. — Keene Court — intent to vacate (R 954-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
E. 176th St. new housing development project — grading and paving, constructing streets,
sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbing curb ramps, median strips, intersections,
utility boxes, casting adjustments, appurtenances, streetscaping, landscaping,
installing water and sewer mains and connections (O 67-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Euclid Ave. — between Public Square & E. 70th St. — estimated assessments — approving
report on objections — Board of Revision of Assessments (O 971-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Euclid Ave. — between Public Square & E. 70th St. — objections to estimated assessments
— time and place for hearing (R 973-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Heavy duty vehicles and apparatus — purchase, lease or lease to purchase — various
Divisions — Department of Public Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties,
and Public Safety (O 762-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 994
Hessler Neighborhood Association — banner — Hessler Street Fair (O 920-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999
Mt. Haven Missionary Baptist Church — banner — 3rd Annual Taste of Mt. Haven in
Mt. Pleasant (O 919-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999
Mt. Zion/McCreary Center — banner — church carnival (O 985-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
On-road vehicles and off-road equipment — purchase — vehicle and boat rehabilitation
— various divisions (O 829-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 997
University Circle, Inc. — banners — Parade the Circle Celebration (O 918-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999

Street Vacation
Carroll Ave. — Keene Court — intent to vacate (R 954-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955

Tabled Legislation
5th Annual Gospel Music Festival — Miles Family YMCA — Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 307-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Cleveland Housing Network — contracts — low income housing units (O 714-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
E. 93rd St., 3121 — Land Reutilization Program — Jamal Hanini and Salti Salti
(O 2065-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Historic Newton Avenue Apartments — Community Development Block Grant float loan
— Famicos Foundation (O 1529-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T

1014

May 18, 2005

The City Record

83

Kamm’s Corners area — public parking lot — extend the lease agreement — Kamm’s Corners
Development Corporation (O 689-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Karamu House — grant — African American Cultural Garden — establish — Economic
Development Dept. (O 2408-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
ORCA House — social services — Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 803-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Peddling on private property — amend Sec. 675.05 (O 1536-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
St. Clair Avenue, 10003-07 — Land Reutilization Program — Ricky Aikens (O 2116-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T

Traffic Code
Parking place — definition — amend Section 401.34 (O 981-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Red light and speeding violators — automated cameras to impose civil penalties — amend
Sec. 413.031 (O 940-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936

Tree Trimming
Tree trimming — around electrical wires and streetlights — Division of Cleveland Public
Power (O 357-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971

Tremont West Development Corporation
Leadership Collaborative — Ward 13,14,15,19,20 NEF (O 922-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Westside Leadership Collaborative of Cleveland Program — amend Ord. 662-05 — Ward 13,
15, 17, 19 and 20 NEF (O 978-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957

University Circle
Parade the Circle Celebration - Banner — University Circle, Inc. (O 918-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999

Utilities Department
Big Creek Watershed Stormwater Management Project — state fund — Ohio Public Works
Commission — agreements with ODOT, NEORSD and the City of Parma (O 952-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
Building maintenance services — various divisions (O 356-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Courtland Blvd. — City of Shaker Heights — water main and culvert — public improvement
(O 945-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944
Distribution water mains — cleaning and cement mortar lining (O 947-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
E. 176th St. new housing development project — grading and paving, constructing streets,
sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbing curb ramps, median strips, intersections,
utility boxes, casting adjustments, appurtenances, streetscaping, landscaping,
installing water and sewer mains and connections (O 67-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Educational materials 2005 & 2006 — professional consultants — Division of Water
(O 951-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Marketing and advertising services — promote — Division of Water Pollution Control
(O 950-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Morgan Pump Station — public improvement — demolishing (O 949-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
Paper products for billing — Division of Cleveland Public Power (O 358-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Sewer and catch basin cleaners — repair and maintain — Division of Water Pollution
Control (O 643-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Tree trimming — around electrical wires and streetlights — Division of Cleveland Public
Power (O 357-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Unit process equipment and chemical feeding equipment — test and refurbish — Division
of Water (O 411-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Utility poles — test, remove, and replace — Cleveland Public Power (O 948-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
Vac-all trucks — repair and maintain — Division of Water Pollution Control (O 644-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Water Supply Revolving Loan Account loan — apply for and accept — Morgan Filter
Rehabilitation Project (O 946-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944

1015

The City Record

84

May 18, 2005

Ward 01
E. 176th St. new housing development project — grading and paving, constructing streets,
sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbing curb ramps, median strips, intersections,
utility boxes, casting adjustments, appurtenances, streetscaping, landscaping,
installing water and sewer mains and connections (O 67-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960

Ward 02
5th Annual Gospel Music Festival — Miles Family YMCA — NEF (O 307-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Miles Broadway Health Center — lease certain space — The Ohio State University
Extension — food and nutrition education programs and development programs
(O 956-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
Parker, Loretta — condolence (R 998-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936

Ward 03
Campbell, Migel — peddling (O 912-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999
Kinsman Ave., 14510 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 915-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Leftridge, Lela V. — condolence (R 995-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Mt. Haven Missionary Baptist Church — banner — 3rd Annual Taste of Mt. Haven in
Mt. Pleasant (O 919-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999

Ward 04
E. 93rd St., 3121 — Land Reutilization Program — Jamal Hanini and Salti Salti
(O 2065-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Murako, James O. — peddling (O 911-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999

Ward 06
Ambler Park — lease a portion of property — Case Western Reserve University — site
improvements as an entryway (O 965-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
ORCA House — social services — NEF (O 803-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
University Circle, Inc. — banners — Parade the Circle Celebration (O 918-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999

Ward 07
East 97th Street Bulldogs — agreement — Football Youth Program — NEF (O 979-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Euclid Ave. — between Public Square & E. 70th St. — estimated assessments — approving
report on objections — Board of Revision of Assessments (O 971-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Euclid Ave. — between Public Square & E. 70th St. — objections to estimated assessments
— time and place for hearing (R 973-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Historic Newton Avenue Apartments — Community Development Block Grant float loan
— Famicos Foundation (O 1529-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
Mt. Zion/McCreary Center — banner — church carnival (O 985-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958

Ward 08
Curry, Eugenia J. — condolence (R 996-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Drake, Shaun — peddling (O 982-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Federation of India Commun Associations — congratulation (R 999-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
St. Clair Avenue, 10003-07 — Land Reutilization Program — Ricky Aikens (O 2116-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T
University Circle, Inc. — banners — Parade the Circle Celebration (O 918-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999
Wingfield, Patrick A. — condolence (R 997-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936

Ward 09
Hessler Neighborhood Association — banner — Hessler Street Fair (O 920-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999

1016

May 18, 2005

The City Record

85

Lakeview Square I, Ltd. — contract — acquisition — 11905 Superior Ave. — amend Ord.
476-05 (O 972-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Moulton Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland Municipal School District
(O 591-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
University Circle, Inc. — banners — Parade the Circle Celebration (O 918-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999

Ward 10
Northeast Neighborhood Development Corporation — agreement — Community Partnership
Program — NEF (O 974-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation — agreement — Home Expo Program —
NEF (O 975-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956

Ward 11
Tops Market Grocery — 18501 Neff Rd. — construction — Osborne Capital, Inc.
(O 861-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Turks, Ottoman — recognition (R 1004-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936

Ward 12
E. 55th St. (west side) & E. 49th St. (east side) — Change the zoning — RA2 Townhouse
District and a ‘1’ Height District (O 784-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Jaczkowski, Sr. Mary Helen — congratulation (R 1000-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Majkrzak, Sr. Joan of Arc — congratulation (R 1001-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Mecir, OSF, Rev. Joseph — congratulation (R 1002-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Slavic Village Subdivision — Replat of the Cloisters (F 994-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935

Ward 13
Dock 32 & E. 9th St. pier — lease certain properties — 600 parking spaces —
Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority (O 966-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Downtown Cleveland Partnership — agreement — “Downtown Digs,” A Guide to Living
in Downtown Cleveland Project — NEF (O 976-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Euclid Ave. — between Public Square & E. 70th St. — estimated assessments — approving
report on objections — Board of Revision of Assessments (O 971-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Euclid Ave. — between Public Square & E. 70th St. — objections to estimated assessments
— time and place for hearing (R 973-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Huron Rd., 1220 — new — liquor permit (F 989-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Jefferson Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Thomas P. Leneghan (O 724-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Lakeside Ave., 3232 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 913-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
Literary Bluffs, Phase 3 — A Townhouse Residential Development (Ward 13) (F 993-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Tastebuds, LLC, dba Tastebuds — loan and a grant — interior renovation — 1400 East
30th Street — restaurant (O 967-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Tremont West Development Corporation — Leadership Collaborative — Ward 13,14,15,19,20
NEF (O 922-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
W. 11th St., 2179 — exterior leasehold improvements — Wimbledon Investments, LLC
(O 859-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Westside Leadership Collaborative of Cleveland Program — amend Ord. 662-05 — Ward 13,
15, 17, 19 and 20 NEF (O 978-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957

Ward 14
Barber Ave. & W. 20th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Israel Colon (O 290-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Storer Ave., 5004 — objection — liquor permit (R 977-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Storer Ave., 5004 — transfer — liquor permit (F 991-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Tremont West Development Corporation — Leadership Collaborative — Ward 13,14,15,19,20
NEF (O 922-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
W. 25th St., 1917 — transfer — liquor permit (F 992-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935

1017

The City Record

86

May 18, 2005

Ward 15
Bradley Road Landfill — public improvement of closing — Public Health and Public
Service (O 944-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944
Broadview Rd., 2071-2075 — transfer — liquor permit (F 990-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Estabrook Park — limiting recreational activities (O 923-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Tremont West Development Corporation — Leadership Collaborative — Ward 13,14,15,19,20
NEF (O 922-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Westside Leadership Collaborative of Cleveland Program — amend Ord. 662-05 — Ward 13,
15, 17, 19 and 20 NEF (O 978-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957

Ward 17
Westside Leadership Collaborative of Cleveland Program — amend Ord. 662-05 — Ward 13,
15, 17, 19 and 20 NEF (O 978-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957

Ward 19
Tremont West Development Corporation — Leadership Collaborative — Ward 13,14,15,19,20
NEF (O 922-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Westside Leadership Collaborative of Cleveland Program — amend Ord. 662-05 — Ward 13,
15, 17, 19 and 20 NEF (O 978-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957

Ward 20
Bregar, Sr. Laura — congratulation (R 1003-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Tremont West Development Corporation — Leadership Collaborative — Ward 13,14,15,19,20
NEF (O 922-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Westside Leadership Collaborative of Cleveland Program — amend Ord. 662-05 — Ward 13,
15, 17, 19 and 20 NEF (O 978-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957

Ward 21
Lorain Ave., 14053 — objection — liquor permit (R 914-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968

Water Division
Courtland Blvd. — City of Shaker Heights — water main and culvert — public improvement
(O 945-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944
Distribution water mains — cleaning and cement mortar lining (O 947-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
Educational materials 2005 & 2006 — professional consultants (O 951-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Morgan Pump Station — public improvement — demolishing (O 949-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
Unit process equipment and chemical feeding equipment — test and refurbish (O 411-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Water Supply Revolving Loan Account loan — apply for and accept — Morgan Filter
Rehabilitation Project (O 946-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944

Water Mains
Distribution water mains — cleaning and cement mortar lining (O 947-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945

Water Pollution Control Division
Marketing and advertising services — promote (O 950-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Sewer and catch basin cleaners — repair and maintain (O 643-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Vac-all trucks — repair and maintain (O 644-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974

Weapons
Guns accessibility — young people — investigate (R 921-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969

YWCA
5th Annual Gospel Music Festival — Miles Family YMCA — Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 307-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961-T

Zoning
E. 55th St. (west side) & E. 49th St. (east side) — Change the zoning — RA2 Townhouse
District and a ‘1’ Height District (O 784-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967

1018

