The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

April the Twenty-Seventh, Two Thousand and Five

Jane L. Campbell
Mayor

Frank G. Jackson
President of Council

Valarie J. McCall
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Kevin J. Kelley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
36
36
39
40
40
41
41
41
43
51
52

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner

President of Council – Frank G. Jackson
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ...................................................4691 East 177th Street
Robert J. White .................................................9703 Cardwell Avenue
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson..................................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt........................................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis.........................................................7416 Star Avenue
Sabra Pierce Scott ..............................................9212 Kempton Avenue
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
Roosevelt Coats ....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka .................................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman....................................................3053 West 12th Street
Nelson Cintron, Jr. ....................................................3004 Vega Avenue
Merle R. Gordon .................................................1700 Denison Avenue
Kevin J. Kelley ..............................................6608 Woodhaven Avenue
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ...............................................16519 West Park Road
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Valarie J. McCall, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Jane L. Campbell
Christopher S. Ronayne, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer
Craig Tame, Executive Assistant
Collette J. Appolito, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
Margreat A. Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison
Erik Janas, Inter-Governmental Affairs Officer
Lorna Wisham, Chief Public Affairs Officer

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44106
44112
44119
44105
44113
44113
44109
44144
44102
44102
44102
44111
44111

DEPT. OF LAW – Teresa M. Beasley, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Robert H. Baker, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Alan Schneider, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 1404 East 9th Street
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Julius Ciaccia, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – John C. Mok, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matthew Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Anjou Parekh, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Sanford E. Watson, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Natalie A. Ronayne, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – James G. Williams, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Gina Routen, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Gregory G. Huth, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane E. Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Kenya Taylor, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Director; Mayor Jane
L. Campbell, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L.
Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry, Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline
Hardaway, Janet Jankura, Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J.
Livingstone, Margot James Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Jonalyn M. Krupka, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
William Morrison.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Jane L. Campbell, President; Council President Frank
G. Jackson; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Robert H. Baker, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Margaret Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan,
______________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; James Williams, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank,
E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Teresa M. Beasley, President;
Finance Director Robert H. Baker, Secretary; Council President Frank G. Jackson.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto; Law Director
Teresa M. Beasley; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Teresa M. Beasley; Utilities
Director Julius Ciaccia; Council President Frank G. Jackson.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Rev. Sam Edward Small, Councilman Joseph Cimperman.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb,Council
Member Nelson Cintron, Ed Romero.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton, Council Member Merle Gordon.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Cindy Barber, Vice Chair; Michael Doud,
Doris Honsa, Richard Lenard.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Teresa M. Beasley; Chairman; Finance
Director Robert H. Baker; Council President Frank G. Jackson; Councilman Dona Brady;
Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman; Donald
Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond Ossovicki, Chief Electrical
Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman; Earl S. Bumgarner,
Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, Lawrence Skule, Chief Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V.
Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – James D. Gibans, Chair;
Randall B. Shorr, Vice Chair; Kevin Dreyfuss-Wells, India Pierce Lee, Laura M. Noble,
Robert N. Brown, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Council Member Joe Cimperman, Robert
Jackimowicz; Robert Keiser, Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
Judge Emanuella Groves
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
Judge Anita Laster Mays
Judge Lauren C. Moore
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
Judge Angela R. Stokes
Judge Joan Syneberg
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
Judge Joseph J. Zone

Courtroom
14B
15A
13A
14D
13D
14C
12B
13B
15C
12A
12C
14A
13C

Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Michael E. Flanagan – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak – Bailiff;
Regina Daniel – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 2005

Vol. 92

No. 4768

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, APRIL 25, 2005
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

10:00 A.M.—Aviation & Transportation Committee: Westbrook, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice Chairman; Britt,
Dolan, Gordon, Reed, Rybka.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Reed, Chairman; Britt, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Coats, Conwell,
Jones, Kelley, White, Zone.

Address all communications to

VALARIE J. McCALL
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2002-2005
MONDAY
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Johnson,
Chairman; White, Vice Chairman;
Cimperman, Dolan, Jones, Rybka,
Sweeney.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Sweeney, Chairman; Jones,
Vice Chairman; Brady, Cimperman,
Johnson, Kelley, Polensek, White,
Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee: Lewis, Chairman; Conwell, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Johnson,
Reed, Polensek.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Jackson, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Britt, Cimperman,
Coats, Gordon, Reed, Pierce Scott,
Westbrook, White.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Cimperman, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Jones,
Lewis, Reed, Pierce Scott, Zone.
TUESDAY—Alternating
1:00 P.M. — Health & Human Services Committee: Britt, Chairman;
Zone, Vice Chairman; Cintron, Conwell, Gordon, Pierce Scott, Polensek.
1:30 P.M. — Legislation Committee:
White, Chairman; Pierce Scott, Vice
Chairman; Dolan, Gordon, Johnson,
Rybka, Westbrook.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Coats, Chairman; Brady, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Jones, Kelley,
Polensek,
Sweeney,
Westbrook,
Zone.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chairman, Rybka, Vice Chairman, Conwell, Kelley,
Lewis, Pierce Scott, Westbrook.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chairman:
Rules Committee: Jackson, Chairman; Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Pierce Scott.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats,
Chairman;
Cintron,
Reed,
Pierce Scott, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, April 25, 2005
The meeting of the Council was
called
to
order,
The
President,
Frank G. Jackson, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Britt, Cimperman, Cintron, Coats,
Gordon,
Johnson,
Jones,
Kelley,
Lewis, Pierce Scott, Polensek, Reed,
Rybka, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Campbell, Chief Operating Officer Brown
and Chief of Staff Ronayne and
Directors Beasley, Baker, Ciaccia,
Ricchiuto, Carroll, Watson, Ronayne, Rush, Williams, Routen, Huth,
Fumich, Taylor, Johnson, Appolito,
Brown, Johnson, and Margreat Jackson, Legislative Liaison.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
prayer was offered by Rev. Frederick Clemmons of West Avenue
Church of God in Christ. Pledge of
Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Britt, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with

713

and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Lewis.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 2372-04-C.
Response from property owners
objecting to Resolution No. 2372-04 assessment notice:
David Swetland Building Co. LTD
Kenneth J. Fisher Co., L.P.A.
Heben & Associates, LLC representing Patricia A. Heben
Grubb & Ellis Management Services, Inc. representing Jared Mintz
1938 Euclid LLC
4415 Euclid LLC
1836 Euclid LLC
Elliot M. Kaufman/Attorney representing Brothers Printing Co., Inc.
John F. Herrick, President – Realty Investors Corporation
Jewish Community Federation of
Cleveland
Taft, Stettinius & Hollister LLP,
representing
Prime Properties, Ltd
CR Euclid
CR Truman, LIP
CR Lakewood
File No. 788-05.
From the Law Department — Contractual Awards — MBE/FBE Procurement 2004 Grand Total. Received.
File No. 789-06.
From the Northeast Ohio Coalition
for the Homeless — discontent with
Ordinance No. 695-05 regarding panhandling. Received.
File No. 790-05.
From the Cleveland Public Library
— Director’s Report, April 21, 2005.
Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 791-05.
Re: New Application — 6085731 —
Mohsha, Inc., 7210 Memphis Avenue.
(Ward 16). Received.
File No. 792-05.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 6506531 —
Oenotria Wine Bar, LLC., 12407 Mayfield Road. (Ward 6). Received.
PLATS
File No. 793-05.
Wellington Place for Mt. Pleasant
Now Development Corporation subdivision plat. (Ward 3). Received.
Referred to Committees on Public
Service and City Planning.

The City Record

4
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 794-05—Kathleen A. Martin.
Res. No. 795-05—Don Berric.
Res. No. 796-05 — Rev. Dr. Dennis
Robinson.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 797-05 — Councilwoman
Dona Brady.
Res. No. 798-05 — King Soloman
Grand Lodge.
Res. No. 799-05—Denise Oatman.
Res. No. 800-05—Connie Schultz.
Res. No. 801-05 — San Lorenzo
Club.
Res. No. 802-05 — American Sokol
Organization.
Res. No. 803-05—Joan Woost.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 804-05—Dexter Ivy.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 805-05—Missionary Helen
Simmons.
WELCOME RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 806-05 — José R. Roman
Abreu.
Res. No. 807-05—José A. Delgado
Rodriguez.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 752-05.
By Mayor Campbell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into an amendment to Contract No.
38823 with North Point Garage Limited Partnership for the lease and
operation of the North Point Garage,
terminating November 1, 2104.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the
contrary,
the
Director
of
Finance is authorized to enter into
an amendment to Contract No. 38823
with North Point Garage Limited
Partnership to extend the term of
the lease and operation of the North
Point Garage until November 1, 2104.
In consideration for extending the
term of the lease, North Point
Garage Limited Partnership shall
pay the City a one-time payment of
$3,750,000, to be deposited into the

general fund. This one-time payment
is in addition to the scheduled
monthly rental payments which will
continue through 2104. All other
terms of the lease shall remain the
same.
Section 2. That the term of the
amendment shall be for an additional sixty-seven years, commencing on the effective date of the
amendment
and
terminating
on
November 1, 2104.
Section 3. That the amendment
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 753-05.
By Mayor Campbell.
An emergency ordinance to clarify the deposit of transfer fees, payments, and contributions from CT
Acquisitions I and Dominion Cleveland Thermal, Inc. described in Ordinance No. 1519-04, passed October 25,
2004, and to authorize the Director
of Parks, Recreation, and Properties
to enter into an agreement with The
Cleveland Foundation to administer
a grant program to enhance public
spaces located in the City of Cleveland.
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1519-04 on October 25,
2004, authorizing the transfer of the
franchise for the transmission and
supply of steam and water for heating, cooling, and power purposes
from Dominion Cleveland Thermal,
Inc. to CT Acquisitions I Inc.; and
Whereas, Section 2 of Ordinance
No. 1519-04 describes the franchise
agreement,
as
amended,
in
its
entirety; and
Whereas, Section 1A, Transfer Fee,
and Section 1B, Payments, of the
franchise agreement, as described in
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1519-04,
provide that the transfer fee and
payments by CT Acquisitions I Inc.,
together with any payments or contributions made by Dominion Cleveland Thermal, Inc. and not yet
expended, shall be deposited in the
City’s general fund and expended
only through legislation passed by
City Council; and
Whereas, this Council desires to
clarify the deposit of transfer fees,
payments, and contributions from
CT Acquisitions I Inc. and Dominion
Cleveland Thermal, Inc. described in
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1519-04;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the transfer fees
and payments under the franchise
agreement with CT Acquisitions I
Inc., and the payments or contributions made by Dominion Cleveland
Thermal, Inc. and not yet expended,
described under Section 1A and Section 1B in Section 2 of Ordinance No.
1519-04, passed October 25, 2004,

714

April 27, 2005
shall be deposited in Fund No. 10 SF
350 and shall be expended only
through legislation passed by City
Council.
Section 2. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation, and Properties is
authorized to enter into an agreement with The Cleveland Foundation to administer a grant program
to enhance public spaces located in
the City of Cleveland. The agreement authorized shall be prepared
by the Director of Law, shall contain any additional terms and conditions that the Director deems necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest, shall not exceed
$75,000, and shall be paid from Fund
No. 10 SF 350.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities,
Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties, Finance, Law; Committees
on
Public
Utilities,
Public
Parks, Property and Recreation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 754-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of Water
Revenue Bonds of the city in a principal
amount
not
to
exceed
$100,000,000 for the purpose of refunding outstanding Water Revenue
Bonds, authorizing a supplemental
indenture to supplement the amended and restated trust indenture
securing outstanding Water Revenue Bonds of the city, authorizing
related matters, and declaring an
emergency.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
Ohio, a municipal corporation and
political subdivision in and of the
State of Ohio, is authorized under
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
the State and the Charter of the
City, among other things: (a) to own
and
operate
the
public
utility
referred to as the Waterworks System; (b) to make, from time to time,
improvements to the Waterworks
System; (c) to borrow money for the
purpose of paying costs of those
improvements and refunding outstanding bonds issued for that purpose; and (d) to issue additional
bonds secured by a pledge of and
lien on the Net Revenues of the
Waterworks System on a parity
with Bonds outstanding under the
Indenture, as defined and described
below; and
Whereas, this Council has determined that it is necessary to issue,
sell and deliver additional Bonds
under the Indenture in order to
refund certain Outstanding Bonds to
reduce
the
total
debt
service
payable on the Outstanding Bonds;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of public property, health and safety, and for the further reason that
this ordinance is required to be
immediately effective to permit the
issuance and sale of the Refunding
Bonds to obtain debt service savings

April 27, 2005
for the benefit of the Waterworks
System and thereby provide for the
usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition
to the words and terms defined in
the Indenture, a copy of which is on
file in with the Clerk of Council in
File No. 754-05-A. The following
words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless the context
or use otherwise indicates:
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”
means one or more purchase agreements between the City and the
Original Purchasers with respect to
the Refunding Bonds authorized by
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
“Certificate of Award” means one
or more certificates providing for
the determination of the final terms
of the Refunding Bonds of each
Series, consistent with the requirements of this Ordinance including,
without limitation, Section 2 of this
Ordinance.
“Continuing Disclosure Agreement”
means one or more agreements
authorized by Section 13 of this
Ordinance and to be in accordance
with Rule 15c2-12 of the Securities
and Exchange Commission.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby bond purchase agreement or other credit enhancement,
support or liquidity device used to
enhance or provide for the security
or liquidity of Refunding Bonds of
any Series.
“Escrow Agreement” means one or
more agreements between the City
and the Trustee, in its capacity as
Escrow Agent, authorized by Section
6 of this Ordinance.
“Escrow Fund” means the fund,
including the account or accounts
therein, required to be maintained
with the Trustee, in its capacity as
Escrow
Agent
pursuant
to
the
Escrow Agreement.
“Financial Advisor” means, with
respect to the Refunding Bonds,
Government Capital Management,
L.L.C. or Columbia Equity Financial
Corp., acting jointly or singly, or
any other financial advisory firm or
firms retained by the City.
“Indenture” means the Amended
and Restated Indenture, effective
October 5, 2001, between the City
and U.S. Bank National Association,
as successor trustee, delivered under
authority of Ordinance No. 2011-95
passed by the Council of the City on
April 1, 1996 and the consent of the
owners of 66-2/3% of the applicable
Bonds under the Indenture of Mortgage dated as of November 1, 1977.
“Original Purchasers” means, with
respect to the Refunding Bonds,
A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc., Bear,
Stearns & Co., Inc., UBS Financial
Services Inc. and McDonald Investments, Inc.
“Outstanding Bonds” means water
revenue bonds of the City issued
and outstanding under the Indenture.
“Refunded Bonds” means those
Outstanding Bonds designated in
the Certificate of Award as the
Bonds to be refunded with proceeds
of the Refunding Bonds.
“Refunding
Bonds”
means
the
Bonds authorized to be issued under
this Ordinance and the Indenture in
one or more Series, sold under one

The City Record
or more Bond Purchase Agreements
and secured under one or more Supplemental Indentures supplementing
the Indenture to provide the terms
of each Series.
“Supplemental Indenture” means
one or more Supplemental Indentures between the City and the
Trustee
securing
the
Refunding
Bonds and authorized under Section
6 of this Ordinance. In the event
that the Refunding Bonds are issued
in more than one Series under more
than one Supplemental Indenture,
references in this Ordinance to the
Supplemental Indenture mean the
Supplemental Indenture applicable
to that Series.
Section 2. Authorization of the Refunding Bonds. This Council finds
and determines it is necessary and
proper and in the best interest of
the City to issue the Refunding
Bonds for the purpose of refunding
the Refunded Bonds. The Refunding
Bonds may be issued in one or more
Series. The principal amount of each
Series of Refunding Bonds is to be
the amount set forth in the Certificate of Award authorized in Section
2. The aggregate principal amount
of Refunding Bonds of all Series
issued for the purpose of refunding
the
Refunded
Bonds
shall
not
exceed $100,000,000 and shall be the
amount determined by the Director
of Finance, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, to be
necessary to refund the Refunded
Bonds and to obtain aggregate net
present value debt service savings
with respect to the Refunded Bonds
of not less than three percent (3%).
The proceeds from the sale of each
Series of Refunding Bonds shall be
allocated, deposited and applied as
provided in Section 4 of this Ordinance.
The Refunding Bonds may be
issued in one or more separate
Series, each bearing a distinctive
designation, provided that the Refunding Bonds of each Series satisfy the requirements of this Ordinance. Separate Series of Refunding
Bonds may be issued at the same or
different
times.
The
Refunding
Bonds of each Series shall be designated as provided in the applicable Certificate of Award. A separate
Certificate of Award and a separate
Supplemental
Indenture
may
be
delivered for each Series.
In the event that the Director of
Finance,
based
on
the
written
advice of a Financial Advisor, determines that the City’s best interests
will be served by causing a Series
of Refunding Bonds to be obligations bearing interest at variable
interest rates, then the Director of
Finance is authorized to so specify
in the Certificate of Award for that
Series. If the Director of Finance so
determines, then the method and
procedure by which the variable
rate of interest to be borne by the
Refunding Bonds of that Series
shall be determined as provided in
the applicable Supplemental Indenture, whether by auction, by reference to a market index, by a remarketing agent or otherwise; provided
that no Series of Refunding Bonds
shall bear interest at a rate in
excess of sixteen percent (16%) per
year. Notwithstanding that limitation, a Series of Refunding Bonds
held by a provider of a Credit Support Instrument may bear interest at

715

5
a rate not in excess of twenty-five
percent (25%) per year as provided
in the agreement with the provider
of the Credit Support Instrument.
The Director of Finance may determine that the terms of a variable
rate Series of Refunding Bonds may
or may not permit the Holders to
tender their variable rate Refunding
Bonds for purchase by the City. If
the Director of Finance designates
any Series of Refunding Bonds as
variable rate Refunding Bonds, and
if the Holders of that Series of
Refunding Bonds are to be entitled
to tender those Refunding Bonds for
purchase,
then
the
Director
of
Finance shall also designate in the
Certificate of Award for those variable rate Refunding Bonds, the tender agent or agents and the remarketing agent or agents, which designations shall be based on the
determination of the Director of
Finance,
based
on
the
written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
the parties so designated possess
the requisite resources and experience to provide the services required
of them and that the terms on which
the designated parties have agreed
to provide such services are fair and
commercially reasonable. The Director of Finance is authorized to enter
into agreements in connection with
the
delivery
of
the
Refunding
Bonds, and from time to time thereafter so long as the Refunding
Bonds are outstanding, with providers of Credit Support Instruments, tender agents (which may be
the Trustee), remarketing agents
(which may be any of the Original
Purchasers) and others as may be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be necessary or appropriate to provide for the method of
determining the variable interest
rates, permitting holders the right
of tender and providing for payment
of the purchase price of, or debt service on, the variable rate Refunding
Bonds. In the event the variable rate
Refunding Bonds are issued as auction rate obligations, the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements from time to time, so
long as the Refunding Bonds are
outstanding, with auction agents
and others, or to cause the Trustee
to enter into those agreements,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor that the parties
so designated possess the requisite
resources and experience to provide
the services required of them and
that the terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide
such services are fair and commercially reasonable.
Regardless of whether a Series of
Refunding Bonds bears interest at
variable or fixed rates, the Director
of Finance is authorized to contract
for Credit Support Instruments, and
to pay the costs of them from proceeds of the Refunding Bonds, if he
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
the Credit Support Instrument or
Instruments will result in a savings
in the cost of the financing to the
City.
The Refunded Bonds shall be designated by the Director of Finance
in the Certificate of Award and
shall consist of those Outstanding
Bonds the refunding of which will
enable the City, in the judgment of
the Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a Financial

6
Advisor, to obtain aggregate net
present value debt service savings
of not less than three percent (3%).
The Refunded Bonds shall be called
for redemption or retired on the date
or dates specified in the Certificate
of Award. The redemption dates so
specified shall be the dates required
under the Code for compliance with
Section 149(d) of the Code and other
applicable federal tax laws.
Section
3.
Sale
of
Refunding
Bonds. The Refunding Bonds shall
be sold to the Original Purchasers
pursuant to one or more Bond Purchase Agreements substantially in
the form of the Bond Purchase
Agreement now on file with the
Clerk in the File referenced in Section 1 with such changes not inconsistent with the Indenture or this
Ordinance
and
not
substantially
adverse to the City as may be
approved by the Director of Finance
and the Director of Law. The
approval of any changes by those
officers and the determination by
those officers that the change is not
substantially adverse to the City
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing and delivery of the Bond
Purchase Agreement by those officers. The Director of Finance shall
sign and deliver the Certificate of
Award and Bond Purchase Agreement for the Refunding Bonds of
each Series, one or more of which
shall specify and set forth the following details with respect to the
Refunding Bonds:
(a)
the
aggregate
principal
amount; provided that amount shall
not exceed $100,000,000 assuming
that the Refunding Bonds are to be
initially offered to the public at a
price at least equal to their aggregate principal amount; however, if
any of the Refunding Bonds are to
be initially offered to the public at
an original issue discount, the maximum aggregate principal amount of
Refunding Bonds shall be increased
over that amount by an amount
equal to the aggregate original
issue discount net of the aggregate
original issue premium;
(b) the date or dates of the
Refunding Bonds;
(c) the purchase price to be paid
to the City by the Original Purchasers, which amount shall be not
less than: (i) 97% of the amount
determined by subtracting from the
aggregate principal amount of the
Refunding Bonds any aggregate
original issue discount net of any
aggregate original issue premium
with
respect
to
the
Refunding
Bonds, plus (ii) any accrued interest on the Refunding Bonds from
their date to the date of their delivery to the Original Purchasers;
(d) whether any Refunding Bonds
are subject to optional redemption
prior to maturity and, if so, the earliest optional redemption date for
those Refunding Bonds subject to
prior redemption, which shall be not
later than ten years from the first
interest payment date of the applicable
Series,
and
the
applicable
redemption price, which shall be not
greater than 102% of the principal
amount redeemed;
(e) the dates on which principal
of the Refunding Bonds is to be
paid, which shall be not later than
30 years from the date of delivery,
with an identification of whether
the payment is due by stated matu-

The City Record
rity or by mandatory sinking fund
redemption of Refunding Bonds of a
particular maturity;
(f) the interest rates to be borne
by Refunding Bonds bearing interest at a fixed rate, which shall not
exceed amounts that result in an
average yield in excess of six percent (6%), and the method by which
the interest rate is to be determined
for Refunding Bonds bearing interest at variable rates, consistent with
Section 2. The Refunding Bonds of
the same Series and same maturity
may bear interest at different interest rates;
(g) the particular Outstanding
Bonds or portions thereof to be
Refunded Bonds;
(h) any deposit required to be
made to the Debt Service Reserve
Fund; and
(i) the title and Series designation
for the Bonds.
It is determined that the terms of
the Refunding Bonds as so determined within the limitations set
forth in this Ordinance and as so
specified and set forth in the Certificate of Award will be in the best
interest of the City and consistent
with all legal requirements.
Section 4. Application of Proceeds
of Refunding Bonds. The proceeds
of the sale of the Refunding Bonds
shall be deposited as follows:
(a) to the Trustee, for deposit to
the credit of the Interest Account in
the Debt Service Fund, the amount,
if any, received by the City upon
delivery of the Refunding Bonds as
accrued interest on any Refunding
Bonds from their dated date to the
date of the delivery of and payment
for those Refunding Bonds;
(b) to the Trustee, for deposit to
the credit of the Debt Service
Reserve Fund, any amount identified in the Certificate of Award as
required to be deposited in the Debt
Service Reserve Fund;
(c) to the Trustee, for deposit to
the credit of any Escrow Fund
established pursuant to any Escrow
Agreement, any proceeds to be
applied in accordance with the
Escrow Agreement to refund the
Refunded Bonds; and
(d) to the Trustee for deposit in
the Costs of Issuance Fund for the
Refunding Bonds (to be established
under the applicable Supplemental
Indenture) the balance of the proceeds to be applied to pay costs of
issuing the Refunding Bonds.
Provision shall be made in the
Supplemental
Indenture
for
the
application of any amounts held in
the funds and accounts established
under the Indenture and no longer
required for the security of the
Bonds as a result of the Refunded
Bonds no longer being Outstanding,
or any amounts that otherwise are
in excess of the required balances.
Provision may be made in the Supplemental Indenture for the creation
of separate accounts within the
funds established under the Indenture or Supplemental Indenture.
Section 5. Terms and Provisions
Applicable to the Refunding Bonds.
(a) Form; Exchange and Transfer.
All Refunding Bonds shall be issued
in
fully
registered
form.
The
Refunding Bonds initially shall be
delivered only in book-entry form,
shall be registered in the name of
the Depository or its nominee, as

716

April 27, 2005
registered owner, and immobilized
in the custody of the Depository,
and shall not be transferable or
exchangeable (except for transfer to
another Depository or its nominee)
without further action by the City
pursuant to the provisions of the
Supplemental Indenture.
(b) Dates; Denominations. The
Refunding Bonds shall be dated as
of the date or dates provided in the
Certificate of Award. The Refunding Bonds of each Series shall be
issued in the denominations permitted in the Supplemental Indenture.
(c) Interest and Place of Payment. The Refunding Bonds shall
bear interest at their respective
interest rates specified in the Certificate of Award (or, in the case of
variable
rate
Refunding
Bonds,
determined pursuant to the Supplemental Indenture). The Refunding
Bonds of each Series shall bear
interest from the most recent date
to which interest has been paid or
duly provided for or, if no interest
has been paid or duly provided for,
from their date. The principal and
any redemption premium and the
interest payable on each Refunding
Bond shall be payable at the times,
to the persons and in the manner set
forth in, or referenced by, the Supplemental
Indenture,
including,
without limitation, provisions thereof permitting special arrangements
for payments to the Depository.
(d) Maturities. The Refunding
Bonds shall mature on the principal
retirement dates provided in the Certificate of Award.
(e) Optional and Mandatory Redemption. The Refunding Bonds
may be subject to redemption prior
to maturity at the option of the City,
if and to the extent so provided in
the
Certificate
of
Award.
Any
Refunding Bonds so determined to
be subject to optional redemption
and maturing by their stated terms
after the earliest optional redemption date shall be subject to redemption at the option of the City on or
after the earliest optional redemption date in whole or in part on any
date at the redemption prices provided in the Certificate of Award
and in accordance with the applicable Supplemental Indenture and the
Indenture. The Refunding Bonds
designated in the Certificate of
Award as term bonds subject to
mandatory sinking fund redemption
shall be redeemed prior to maturity
on each mandatory redemption date
designated in the Certificate of
Award in the aggregate amount of
the sinking fund installment to be
paid on such mandatory redemption
date, all as provided in the Certificate of Award and in accordance
with the Supplemental Indenture.
(f) Execution. The Refunding
Bonds shall be signed by the persons and in the manner set forth in
the Indenture.
(g) Numbering. The Refunding
Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director of Finance.
Section 6. Authorization of Supplemental Indenture; Escrow Agreement. In order to secure the payment of the principal of and any
premium and interest on the Refunding
Bonds,
the
Director
of
Finance and Director of Public Utilities are authorized and directed, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
to sign and deliver to the Trustee,

April 27, 2005
in trust for the Original Purchasers
and subsequent holders of the Refunding Bonds, one or more Supplemental Indentures, approved as to
form and correctness by the Director of Law, not inconsistent with
this Ordinance, the Certificate of
Award and the Indenture and not
substantially adverse to the City as
may be approved by the officers
signing the same on behalf of the
City. The determination by those
officers that a Supplemental Indenture is not substantially adverse to
the City shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing and delivery
of that Supplemental Indenture by
those officers.
The Director of Finance and the
Director
of
Public
Utilities
are
authorized and directed, in the name
and on behalf of the City, to sign
and deliver one or more Escrow
Agreements between the City and
the
Trustee
as
Escrow
Agent,
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, providing
for the establishment of an Escrow
Fund as a trust fund in the custody
of the Trustee and the investment,
dedication and application of the
moneys deposited in the accounts
therein to the payment of the
Refunded Bonds and further providing for the payment of the fees and
expenses of the Trustee for the performance of its duties as Escrow
Agent.
Each
Escrow
Agreement
shall provide for the redemption of
the applicable Refunded Bonds subject to redemption in accordance
with the Certificate of Award and
shall provide irrevocable instruction
to the Trustee to effect such redemption in accordance with the Indenture. The Director of Finance is
authorized, in the name and on
behalf of the City, to sign and deliver agreements, approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, with one or more institutions,
including agreements to enable the
City to more efficiently structure an
Escrow Fund, and thereby maximize
debt service savings and minimize
negative arbitrage. The Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to take such other actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to accomplish the refunding of the Refunded
Bonds, including without limitation,
the retention of a firm of independent certified public accountants to
verify that the securities to be in an
Escrow Fund are of such maturities
or redemption dates, and interest
payment dates, and bear such interest, as will be sufficient, together
with any available moneys in an
Escrow Fund, for the payment of
debt service on the Refunded Bonds.
Section 7. Rebate Fund. There is
hereby established and ordered to be
maintained one or more separate
accounts (except when invested as
provided in the Indenture) within
the Rebate Fund held in the custody
of the Trustee under the Indenture.
The Rebate Fund is not pledged to
the payment of debt service and is
free and clear of any pledge or lien
given under the Indenture as security for the Refunding Bonds or the
Outstanding Bonds. Calculations of
excess earnings that may be due
and payable to the federal government pursuant to the Code and
deposits to those accounts of the
Rebate Fund shall be made as provided in the applicable Supplemental Indenture.

The City Record
Section 8. Other Provisions for
Payment of Outstanding Bonds. The
City may, from time to time, deposit
funds in trust with the Trustee for
the payment of principal and interest requirements on any Outstanding Bonds if, in the judgment of the
Director of Finance and the Director of Public Utilities, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, doing so will improve the debt
service coverage ratio of the Waterworks System (being the ratio of
Net Revenues to Annual Debt Service Requirements, as defined in the
Indenture). The Director of Finance
is authorized to deposit into an
escrow fund, from time to time, moneys transferred from Fund No. 52-300
of the Water Division, in amounts
that, in the aggregate, do not exceed
$50,000,000, with the actual amount
of any deposit to be determined by
the Director of Finance in consultation with the Director of Public Utilities. In order to cause any amounts
so deposited to be dedicated and
applied solely to the payment of the
principal of and interest and any
redemption premium on the designated Outstanding Bonds, as and
when due at maturity or upon prior
redemption, the Director of Finance
and the Director of Public Utilities
are authorized and directed, in the
name and on behalf of the City, to
sign and deliver one or more escrow
agreements approved as to form and
correctness by the Director of Law,
providing for the establishment of
an escrow fund as a trust fund in
the custody of the Trustee and the
investment, dedication and application of the moneys deposited therein and further providing for the payment to the Trustee of fees and
expenses for its performance of its
duties under the agreement. The
officers signing the agreement on
behalf of the City shall determine
that the agreement satisfies the
requirements of this Section, and
that determination shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the agreement by those officers. The
Director of Finance is authorized, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
to sign and deliver agreements,
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, with one or
more institutions, including agreements which will enable the City to
more
efficiently
structure
any
escrow funds established pursuant
to this Section, and thereby maximize debt service savings and minimize negative arbitrage. The Director of Finance is authorized and
directed to take such other actions
as may be necessary or appropriate
to accomplish any defeasance of the
designated Outstanding Bonds to be
paid from any escrow fund, including without limitation, the retention
of a firm of independent certified
public accountants to verify that the
securities to be deposited in escrow
are of such maturities or redemption
dates, and interest payment dates,
and bear such interest, as will be
sufficient, together with any available moneys, for the payment of
debt service on the designated Outstanding Bonds.
Section 9. Interest Hedge Agreements. This Council finds that by
engaging in interest hedge transactions, from time to time, the City
can, in effect, convert interest on all
or a portion of the Refunding Bonds

717

7
from a fixed rate to a floating rate,
or from a floating rate to a fixed
rate, or exchange one floating rate
for
another
floating
rate,
with
respect to all or any portion of the
Refunding Bonds or otherwise hedge
its interest rate risk and thereby
may reduce its cost of borrowing by
optimizing the relative amounts of
fixed and floating rate obligations
or minimizing the risk of variations
in its debt service costs or maximizing savings. To permit the City
to have the flexibility to undertake
interest rate swap, swaption, rate
cap, rate collar and other hedging
transactions, from time to time, and
to establish the procedures for approving
those
transactions,
this
Council authorizes the execution and
delivery of one or more hedge agreements (each, a "Hedge Agreement")
and any related agreements necessary for the consummation of the
transactions contemplated by each
Hedge Agreement.
The Director of Finance may
authorize one or more interest rate
hedge transactions in accordance
with the applicable Hedge Agreement; provided that (a) the maximum aggregate notional amount of
interest rate hedge transactions outstanding at any one time, net of offsetting interest rate hedge transactions, shall not exceed such amount
as will result in a lowering of the
ratings assigned to the Bonds by the
rating agencies, as is evidenced by
written correspondence from the rating agencies or policies published in
writing by the rating agencies, and
(b) the term of each interest rate
swap transaction shall not exceed 30
years. The approval of each interest
rate hedge transaction by the Director of Finance shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing and delivery of the applicable Hedge Agreement by the Director of Finance.
Each Hedge Agreement shall be
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law. The Director of Finance may obtain the services of a swap advisor or other
financial advisor determined by the
Director of Finance to be knowledgeable about hedging transactions to advise the City concerning
any Hedge Agreement undertaken
pursuant to this Section.
The City’s payment obligations
under each Hedge Agreement shall
be payable from the Net Revenues
of the Waterworks System and may
be secured by a pledge of the Net
Revenues on a parity with the
pledge given under the Indenture to
secure Bonds, subject to the requirements of Article XI of the Indenture
with respect to Parity Obligations.
The obligation of the City to make
payments under a Hedge Agreement
does not and shall not represent or
constitute a general obligation, debt,
bonded indebtedness or a pledge of
the faith and credit of the City.
Nothing shall give any party to a
Hedge Agreement the right to have
excises, ad valorem or other taxes
levied by the City or the State for
the payment of any amounts due
under a Hedge Agreement.
Section 10. Covenants of the City.
The City, by issuance of the Refunding
Bonds,
covenants
and
agrees with the Holders of the
Refunding Bonds, that:
(a) The City will use the proceeds
of the Refunding Bonds to refinance
any Refunded Bonds, to fund any

8
required deposit to the Debt Service
Reserve Fund, and to pay costs
relating to the issuance of the
Refunding Bonds.
(b) The Clerk, or other appropriate officer of the City, will furnish
to the Original Purchasers and to
the Trustee a true transcript of proceedings, certified by the Clerk or
other officer, of all proceedings had
with reference to the issuance of the
Refunding
Bonds,
together
with
information from the City's records
as is necessary to determine the regularity and validity of the issuance
of the Refunding Bonds.
(c) The City will, at any and all
times, cause to be done all such further acts and things and cause to be
signed and delivered all further
instruments as may be necessary to
carry out the purpose of the Refunding Bonds and this Ordinance or as
may be required by Section 13, Article XVIII of the Constitution of Ohio
or the Charter of the City or the
Indenture or the applicable Supplemental Indenture and will comply
with all requirements of law applicable to the Waterworks System and
the operation thereof.
(d) The City will observe and perform all its agreements and obligations provided for in the Refunding
Bonds, this Ordinance, the Indenture
and each Supplemental Indenture.
All of the obligations under this
Ordinance and the Indenture and
each Supplemental Indenture are
hereby established as duties specifically enjoined by law and resulting
from an office, trust or station upon
the City within the meaning of Section 2731.01, Ohio Revised Code.
(e) The City will use, and will
restrict the use and investment of,
the
proceeds
of
the
Refunding
Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the Refunding Bonds will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds,
arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds
under Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the
Code or (ii) be treated other than as
bonds to which Section 103(a) of the
Code applies, and (b) the interest
thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
(f) The City covenants that (a) it
will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it
for the interest on the Refunding
Bonds to be and to remain excluded
from
gross
income
for
federal
income tax purposes, (b) it will not
take or authorize to be taken any
actions that would adversely affect
that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons
acting for it, will, among other acts
of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds
of the Refunding Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing,
(ii) restrict the yield on investment
property acquired with those proceeds, (iii) make timely rebate payments to the federal government,
(iv) maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of proceeds, and, as applicable, of property financed with such proceeds, all
in such manner and to the extent
necessary to assure such exclusion
of that interest under the Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Refunding
Bonds is also made with respect to
all issues for which any portion of
the debt service is paid from proceeds of the Refunding Bonds (and,
if different, the original issue and

The City Record
any refunding issues in a series of
refundings), to the extent such compliance is necessary to assure exclusion of interest on the Refunding
Bonds from gross income for federal income tax purposes, and the
Director of Finance, or any other
officer having responsibility with
respect to the Refunding Bonds, is
authorized to take such actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with
respect
to
the
Refunding
Bonds.
The
Mayor,
the
Director
of
Finance or any other officer of the
City having responsibility for the
issuance of the Refunding Bonds is
authorized (a) to make or effect any
election,
selection,
designation,
choice, consent, approval or waiver
on behalf of the City with respect
to the Refunding Bonds as the City
is permitted or required to make or
give under the federal income tax
laws, including, without limitation,
any of the elections available under
Section 148 of the Code, for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting the favorable tax treatment
or status of the Refunding Bonds or
interest thereon or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose,
reducing
the
burden
or
expense of compliance, reducing the
rebate amount or payments or penalties, or making payments of special
amounts in lieu of making computations to determine, or paying,
excess earnings as rebate, or obviating those amount or payments, as
determined by that officer, (b) to
take any and all other actions, make
or obtain calculations, make payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and
on behalf of the City, as may be
appropriate to assure the exclusion
of interest from gross income and
the intended tax status of the
Refunding Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Refunding Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City regarding the amount and use of all the
proceeds of the Refunding Bonds,
the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they are based, and
other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment or status
of the Refunding Bonds and interest
thereon.
Section 11. Authorization of Bond
Rating and Credit Enhancement. If,
in the judgment of the Director of
Finance, the filing of applications
for one or more ratings on the
Refunding Bonds by one or more
nationally recognized rating agencies or for Credit Support Instruments are necessary or desirable for
marketing purposes, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare
and submit any or all of those applications, to provide information as
may be required in support of those
applications and to provide for the
payment of the costs of ratings and
Credit Support Instruments from
proceeds of the Refunding Bonds or
funds of the Water Division, which
are appropriated for the purpose.
Section 12. Authorization of Official Statement. The Mayor, the
Director of Finance, the Director of
Public Utilities and the Commissioner of the Division of Water are
each authorized and directed to

718

April 27, 2005
cooperate in the preparation of and
(with respect only to the Official
Statements) to sign, on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities,
one or more Preliminary Official
Statements and final Official Statements, as described in the applicable Bond Purchase Agreement for
the applicable Series of Refunding
Bonds, to serve as disclosure documents in connection with the public
offering and sale of the Refunding
Bonds. Those officers are authorized
to use and distribute, or to authorize
the use and distribution of, the Preliminary Official Statements and the
final Official Statements and any
supplements to them in connection
with the original issuance of the
Refunding Bonds. The Mayor, the
Director of Finance, the Director of
Public Utilities and the Commissioner of the Division of Water are
further authorized to sign and deliver, on behalf of the City and in their
official capacities, acting alone or
together, certificates with respect to
the accuracy of each Preliminary
Official Statement and final Official
Statement and any supplements to
them as may be required under the
applicable Bond Purchase Agreement or as may, in their judgment,
be necessary or appropriate. The
Director of Finance is authorized
and directed to contract for services
for the production and distribution
of the Preliminary Official Statements and final Official Statements,
including by printed and electronic
means.
Section 13. Continuing Disclosure
Agreement. If and to the extent
required by Rule 15c2-12 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”), the City shall
enter into one or more Continuing
Disclosure Agreements, approved as
to form and correctness by the
Director of Law, between the City
and the Trustee. In each Continuing
Disclosure Agreement, the City shall
agree to provide, or cause to be provided, to each nationally recognized
municipal
securities
information
repository designated by the SEC
from time to time in accordance
with that Rule, and to any state
information depository, the annual
financial information and operating
data and notices of specified events
required by that Rule. The Director
of Finance is authorized and directed to sign and deliver each Continuing Disclosure Agreement and any
related agreements, certificates and
other instruments, and to deliver
such information, as may be necessary or appropriate to comply with
the requirements of the Rule. The
City understands and agrees that
those commitments are intended to
be for the benefit of the holders
from time to time of the Refunding
Bonds, including holders of bookentry interests in those Bonds.
Section 14. Authorization of Other
Documents.
To
provide
for
the
issuance and sale of the Refunding
Bonds and the consummation of the
transactions contemplated by this
Ordinance, the Indenture, each Bond
Purchase Agreement, each Supplemental
Indenture,
each
Escrow
Agreement, any agreement delivered
pursuant to Section 8 and each
Hedge Agreement, the Mayor, the
Director of Finance and the Director of Public Utilities and such other
officers of the City, in each case as

April 27, 2005
may be appropriate in accordance
with the Charter and other applicable laws, are authorized and directed to sign, acknowledge and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
City, such documents, certifications
and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to issue the
Refunding Bonds and to consummate those transactions.
Section 15. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to the
adoption of this Ordinance were
adopted in an open meeting of this
Council, and that all deliberations of
this Council, and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal
action, were in meetings open to the
public, in compliance with the law.
Section 16. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. The City determines, represents and recites that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done
precedent
to
and
in
the
issuance of the Refunding Bonds in
order to make the Refunding Bonds
legal, valid and binding obligations
of the City have or will have happened or have or will have been done
and performed in regular and due
form as required by law and the
City’s Charter; and that no limitation
of indebtedness or taxation, either
statutory or constitutional, is applicable to the Refunding Bonds or their
issuance. It is further found and
determined, and is represented and
recited, that the provisions of the
City’s Charter and the rules of this
Council have been fully complied
with and that this Ordinance was
adopted in conformity therewith.
Section 17. Severability. In case any
section or provision of this Ordinance,
or in case any covenant, stipulation,
obligation, agreement, act or action
made, assumed or taken under this
Ordinance, is for any reason held to
be illegal or invalid, or is at any time
inoperable by reason of any law, that
illegality or inoperability shall not
affect any other section or provision
of this Ordinance, or any other
covenant,
stipulation,
obligation,
agreement,
act
or
action
made,
assumed or taken under this Ordinance. This Ordinance shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal
or invalid or inoperable portion were
not contained in it. Any such illegality or invalidity or inoperability shall
not affect any legal and valid and
operable application from time to
time, and each such section, provision, covenant, stipulation, obligation,
agreement, act or action shall be
deemed to be effective, operative,
made or taken in the manner and to
the full extent from time to time permitted by law.
Section 18. Effective Date. This
Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure for the reasons set
forth in the preambles. Those preambles are made a part hereof. Provided that this Ordinance receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all members elected to this Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest date
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 755-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to maintain
Group V high volume copiers, including usage, operational supplies
and equipment, for the various divisions of City government, for a one
year period.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one year of the necessary items of labor and materials
necessary to maintain Group V high
volume copiers, including usage,
operational supplies and equipment,
in the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the various divisions
of City government. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 157035)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 756-05.
By Council Members Lewis, White
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 171.44 and 171.45 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
as amended by Ordinance No. 106480, passed June 8, 1981 relating to
deputy bailiff’s and probation officer’s vehicle mileage allowances.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

719

9
Section 1. That Sections 171.44 and
171.45 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1064-80, passed
June 8, 1981 are amended to read as
follows:
Section 171.44 Deputy Bailiff’s
Vehicle Mileage Allowance
Within the maximum limitation
imposed by the judges of the Municipal Court, Deputy Bailiffs of the
Court who use their own motor vehicle
in
transacting
their
public
duties, in addition to their salaries,
may be allowed an expense item for
vehicle use covering gasoline, oil
and maintenance, at the rate per
mile currently in effect with the
union’s collective bargaining agreement for each mile which each vehicle may travel in the performance
of the official duty of the Bailiff
owning the same. This allowance is
no part of the salary of the Bailiff,
but merely a reimbursement for the
expenses incurred for use of the
Bailiff’s vehicle.
Section 171.45 Probation Officer’s
Vehicle Mileage Allowance
Probation officers of the Municipal Court, when duly authorized by
the judges or by the Chief Probation
Officer with the authority of the
judges, in addition to their salaries,
shall be allowed an expense item
covering gasoline, oil and maintenance of their private vehicles when
the same are used directly in connection with the performance of
their duties as probation officers.
The allowance shall be the rate per
mile currently in effect with the
union’s collective bargaining agreement for each mile which each vehicle may travel in the performance
of the official duty of the probation
officer owning the same, as shall be
evidenced by an affidavit duly executed by each probation officer
claiming the mileage, which affidavit shall be in the form approved
by the Director of Law. The affidavit shall be executed and filed at
the end of each calendar month covering the operation of the vehicle
during the preceding month. The
allowance shall not be construed to
be a part of the salary or compensation of the probation officer, but
shall be construed as a reimbursement to him for the expense necessarily incurred in the use of his
vehicle on official business. The
aggregate amount of such reimbursement to a probation officer for
any one calendar month shall not
exceed one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00).
Section 2. That existing Sections
171.44 and 171.45 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as amended by Ordinance No. 106480, passed June 8, 1981 are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Personnel
and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Committees on Employment,
Affirmative Action and Training,
Legislation, Finance.

10
Ord. No. 757-05.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as
part of the Land Reutilization Program and located on Kinsman Road
to Burten, Bell, Carr Development,
Inc. or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-27-028 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
or designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-27-028
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 35 feet of Sublot No. 12, in
Sebastian Fieg’s Subdivision of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 330, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 60
of Cuyahoga County Records and
being about 42.5 feet front on the
Easterly side of East 72nd Street,
and extending back about 105 feet
deep on the Northerly line, about
128.10 feet deep on the Southerly
line and about 36 feet deep on the
rear, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-27-029 as
more
fully
described
below
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
or designee.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-27-029
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Southerly 35 feet of the Northerly 70 feet
of Sublot No. 12 in Sebastian Fieg’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 330, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 4 of
Maps, Page 60 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 42.50 feet front
on the Easterly side of East 72nd
Street (formerly Fairbanks Street),

The City Record
about 105 feet deep on the Northerly line, about 81 feet deep on the
Southerly line and 35 feet wide in
the rear, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-27-030 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
or designee.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-27-030
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 12 in S. Fieg’s Allotment
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 330, as shown by the
recorded plat of said Allotment in
Volume 4 of Maps, Page 60 of Cuyahoga County Records, bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the Northerly line of Kinsman Road,
S.E., and the Northeasterly line of
East 72nd Street (formerly Fairbanks Street); thence Easterly along
the Northerly line of Kinsman Road,
S.E., a distance of 19 feet to the
Westerly line of land conveyed by
John Vogler and Eliza Vogler to
John Klee, by deed February 9, 1921,
and recorded in Volume 2475, Page
399 of Cuyahoga County Records;
thence Northerly along the said
Westerly line of Klee’s land, which
said line is parallel to and distant
Westerly one foot from the Easterly line of said Sublot No. 12, a distance of 53 feet; thence Easterly
along a line parallel with the
Northerly line of Kinsman Road,
S.E., a distance of one foot to the
Easterly line of said Sublot No. 12;
thence Northerly along the Easterly
line of said Sublot No. 12, a distance
of 37 feet to the Southerly line of
land conveyed by Eliza Bogler and
husband to Edward E. Stoneman by
deed dated July 26, 1890, and recorded in Volume 468, Page 525 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence Westerly along the Southerly line of
Stoneman’s land a distance of about
81 feet to the Northeasterly line of
East 72 Street; thence Southeasterly
along the Northeasterly line of East
72nd Street, to the place of beginning, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-27-032 as
more fully described, to Burten, Bell,
Carr Development, Inc. or designee.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-27-032
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
11 in Sebastian Feig’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 330, as shown by the recorded plat of said Allotment in Volume

720

April 27, 2005
4 of Maps, Page 60 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Said Sublot No. 11 has a frontage
of 30 feet on the Northerly side of
Kinsman Road, S.E., and extends
back between parallel lines 160 feet
to Falcon Road, S.E., (formerly
South Alley), as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-27-033 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
or designee.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-27-033
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly 36 feet of Sublot No. 10 in Sebastian Fieg’s Allotment of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
330, as shown by the recorded plat
of said Allotment in Volume 4 of
Maps, Page 60 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 36 feet front on
the Northerly side of Kinsman Road,
S.E., and extending back between
parallel lines 160 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-27-034 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
or designee.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-27-034
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly 20 feet of Sublot No. 9 and the
Easterly 14 feet of Sublot No. 10 in
Sebastian Fieg’s Allotment of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 330, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 60
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
together forming a parcel of land 34
feet front on the Northerly side of
Kinsman Road, S.E., and extending
back of equal width 160 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways. Existing Zoning Ordinance if any.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-27-035 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
or designee.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-27-035
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the East-

April 27, 2005
erly 30 feet of Sublot No. 9 in the S.
Fieg’s Subdivision of a part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 330,
as shown by the recorded plat of
said Subdivision in Volume 4 of
Maps, Page 60 of Cuyahoga County
Records. Said part of Sublot No. 9
has a frontage of 30 feet on the
Northerly side of Kinsman Road S.E.
and extending back between parallel lines 160 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 15. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-27-036 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
or designee.
Section 16. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-27-036
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Northwesterly 40 feet of Sublot No. 8 in
Sebastian Fieg’s Allotment of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 330, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 60
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 40 feet front on the Northeasterly side of Kinsman Road, S.E.,
(formerly Kinsman Street) and extending back of equal width 160 feet
to the Southwesterly line of Falcon
Road, S.E., be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 17. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-27-037 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
or designee.
Section 18. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-27-037
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Northwesterly 20 feet of Sublot No. 7 and
the Southeasterly 10 feet of Sublot
No. 8 in Sebastian Fieg’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 330, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 4 of Maps,
Page
60
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and together forming a
parcel of land having a frontage of
30 feet on the Northeasterly side of
Kinsman Road S.E., (formerly Kinsman Street) and extending back
between parallel lines 160 feet to an
alley in the rear now known as Falcon Road, S.E., as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 19. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-27-038 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
or designee.
Section 20. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordi-

The City Record
nance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-27-038
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Southeasterly 30 feet of Sublot No. 7 in
Sebastian Fieg’s Allotment of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 330, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 60
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 30 feet front on the Northeasterly side of Kinsman Road, S.E.,
and extending back between parallel lines 160 feet to Falcon Road,
S.E., as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 21. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-27-039 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
or designee.
Section 22. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-27-039
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly 25 feet, 10 inches from front to
rear of Sublot No. 6 in Sebastian
Fieg’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 330,
as shown by the recorded plat of
said Subdivision in Volume 4 of
Maps, Page 60 of Cuyahoga County
Records. Said part of Subdivision 6
has a frontage of 25 feet, 10 inches
on the Northerly side of Kinsman
Road,
S.E.,
(formerly
Kinsman
Street), and extends back between
parallel lines 160 feet to a 16 foot
alley (now known as Falcon Road,
S.E.), as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 23. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-27-040 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
or designee.
Section 24. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-27-040
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly 24 feet, 2 inches of Sublot No.
6 in Sebastian Feig’s Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 330, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 4 of Maps, Page
60 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 24 feet, 2 inches front on the
Northerly side of Kinsman Road,
S.E., and extending back of equal;
width 160 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 25. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordi-

721

11
nance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 26. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 27. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 28. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 758-05.
By
Council
Members
Gordon,
Coats, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to execute a deed of easement granting to Cleveland Housing Network
certain easement rights in property
located in the vicinity of Fern Court
to install and maintain a water
main for the Fern Court Townhouse
project and declaring said easement
rights no longer needed for public
use; and authorizing the acquisition
of certain easements from Cleveland
Housing Network for utility work.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that an easement interest in
the following described property is
no longer needed for public use:
Water Main Easement
Exhibit “B”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
74
and
further
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning at a 1” iron pin found
in a monument box at the intersec-

12
tion of the centerline of Denison
Avenue (formerly Newburgh Street)
(56 feet wide) and the westerly line
of Original Brooklyn Township Lot
No. 74 and the easterly line of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 65;
Thence
North
85°-51'-48"
East
along the centerline of Denison
Avenue, 573.35 feet to a 1" iron pin
found in a monument box found at
a angle point on the centerline of
Denison Avenue;
Thence North 12°-26'-12" West,
28.31 feet to the northerly right-ofway of Denison Avenue;
Thence South 85°-51'-48" West
along the northerly right-of-way of
Denison Avenue, 57.98 feet to the
southeast corner of land conveyed to
John Zorn by deed dated August 28,
1992 and recorded in Volume 92-7528,
Page
60
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
Thence North 04°-08'-12" West
along the easterly line of land so
conveyed, 120.00 feet to the northeast corner thereof and the northerly line of H.E. Foster Re-Subdivision
as shown on the Plat record in volume 18, Page 16 of Cuyahoga County Map Records.
Thence South 85°-51'-48" West
along the northerly line of the H.E.
Foster Re-Subdivision, 140.90 feet to
a point;
Thence North 04°-08'-12" West,
54.20 feet to the principal place of
beginning of the premises herein
described;
Thence North 04°-08'-13" West,
30.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 86°-47'-00" East,
190.61 feet to a point;
Thence South 04°-08'-13" East,
30.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 86°-47'-00" East,
190.61 feet to the principal place of
beginning and containing 0.1313
acres of land as calculated and
described by Edward B. Dudley III,
P.S. No. 6747 of The Riverstone
Company in September of 2004, by
the same more or less, but not subject to legal highways.
Basis of bearings:
The Original
Lot Nos. 64 and 74 being North 01°37' 40" West on the J.M. Curtiss
Park Addition to Brooklyn Village
recorded in Volume 13, Page 39 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records.
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
above described easement interest to
Cleveland Housing Network, subject
to any conditions stated herein, at a
price of One Dollar ($1.00).
Section 3. That the easement shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be to install and
maintain a water main within, over
and upon the property more fully
described above for Cleveland Housing Network’s Fern Court Townhouse project.
Section 4. That the duration of the
easement shall be perpetual; that
the easement may include reasonable right of entry right to the City;
that the easement shall not be
assignable without the consent of
the Director of Public Utilities; that
the
easement
shall
require
the
Cleveland
Housing
Network
to
indemnify the City, provide reasonable insurance, maintain any Cleveland
Housing
Network
improvements located within the easement,
and pay any applicable taxes and
assessments.
Section 5. That the conveyance
referred to above shall be made by
official deed of easement prepared by

The City Record
the Director of Law and executed by
the Director of Public Utilities on
behalf of the City. The deed of easement shall contain any additional
terms and conditions as are required
to protect the interests of the city.
The Directors of Public Utilities and
Law are authorized to execute other
documents, including without limitations, contracts for rights of entry, as
may be necessary to effect the installation and maintenance of the water
main within the property described in
this ordinance.
Section 6. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire certain easements rights
from Cleveland Housing Network in
and to the premises described for
the purposes of utility work at no
cost to the City:
Water Main Easement
Exhibit “A”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
74
and
further
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning at a 1" iron pin found
in a monument box at the intersection of the centerline of Denison
Avenue (formerly Newburgh Street)
(56 feet wide) and the westerly line
of Original Brooklyn Township Lot
No. 74 and the easterly line of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 65;
Thence
North
85°-51'-48"
East
along the centerline of Denison
Avenue, 573.35 feet to a 1" iron pin
found in a monument box found at
a angle point on the centerline of
Denison Avenue;
Thence North 12°-26'-12" West,
28.31 feet to the northerly right-ofway of Denison Avenue;
Thence South 85°-51'-48" West
along the northerly right-of-way of
Denison Avenue, 57.98 feet to the
southeast corner of land conveyed to
John Zorn by deed dated August 28,
1992 and recorded in Volume 92-7528,
Page
60
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
Thence North 04°-08'-12" West
along the easterly line of land so
conveyed, 120.00 feet to the northeast corner thereof and the northerly line of H.E. Foster Re-Subdivision
as shown on the Plat recorded in
Volume 18, Page 16 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records.
Thence South 85°-51'-48" West along
the northerly line of the H.E. Foster
Re-Subdivision, 140.90 feet to a point;
Thence North 04°-08'-12" West,
55.45 feet to the principal place of
beginning of the premises herein
described;
Thence North 48°-13'-00" West,
40.65 feet to a point;
Thence North 86°-47'-00" East,
28.28 feet to a point;
Thence South 04°-08'-12" West
28.75 feet, to the principal place of
beginning and containing 0.0093
acres of land as calculated and
described by Edward B. Dudley III,
P.S. No. 6747 of The Riverstone Company in September of 2004, by the
same more or less, but not subject
to legal highways.
Basis of bearings: The Original
Lot Nos. 64 and 74 being North 01°37'-40" West on the J.M. Curtiss
Park Addition to Brooklyn Village
recorded in Volume 13, Page 39 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records.

722

April 27, 2005
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to execute on behalf of the City all documents necessary to acquire certain
rights in and to the property.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 759-05.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more requirement
contracts without competitive bidding with Standard Signs, Inc. for
labor and materials necessary to
furnish and install airfield signage
for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council determines that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Standard Signs, Inc. Therefore, the
Director of Port Control is authorized to make one or more written
requirement contracts with Standard
Signs, Inc. under the Charter and
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a period not to exceed one
or two years for labor and materials necessary to furnish and install
airfield signage, to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies on a unit basis, for the various divisions of the Department of
Port Control. The Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with a term
of two years instead of one year
when there is a financial advantage
to the City. For purposes of this
ordinance, a financial advantage
shall be determined by the Director
of Port Control by comparing the
bids received for both terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 129219)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.

April 27, 2005
Ord. No. 760-05.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1124-01,
passed July 18, 2001, relating to a requirement contract of deicing services,
for the Department of Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1124-01, passed July 18,
2001 is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the cost of the contract shall not exceed $17,000,000
and shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchases, which purchase, together
with all subsequent purchases, shall
be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
under a requisition against the contract duly certified by the Director
of Finance. (RL 30924)
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1124-01, passed July 18,
2001 is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 761-05.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance Authorizing the Director of Public Service
to enter into an amendment to Contract No. 61844 with Kenmore Construction Co., Inc., for the continuation of pavement grinding services,
for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Service, for a period
not to exceed five months.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Director of Public
Service is authorized to enter into
an amendment to Contract No. 61844
with Kenmore Construction Co., Inc.
for pavement grinding services to
extend the term of its existing contract from August 6, 2005 to December 31, 2005, in order to complete the
2005 resurfacing program without
interruption, at the current contract
prices.
Section 2. That the amendment
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency mea-

The City Record
sure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 762-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase, lease or lease to
purchase by requirement contract of
various types of heavy duty vehicles
and apparatus for various Divisions
in the Departments of Public Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of various types of heavy duty vehicles
and apparatus described in File No.
762-05-A with the Clerk of Council in
the estimated sum of $8,400,000, to
be purchased, leased or leased to
purchase by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for various Divisions in the
Departments
of
Public
Service,
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
and Public Safety.
Bids shall be
taken in such manner as to permit
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for a requirements contract for the
entire year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase or procurement thereunder,
which
purchase
or
procurement,
together with all subsequent purchases or procurements, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies pursuant
to a requisition against such contract duly certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 3. That the Director of
Finance may enter into a lease-purchase arrangement for the heavy
duty vehicles and apparatus with a
bank, leasing company or any other
organization that is not the manufacturer or vendor of the vehicles or
apparatus that submitted a bid for
the sale, lease or lease to purchase
described in Section 1 of this ordinance, provided that: (I) the Director of Finance determines that it is

723

13
in the best interest of the City to
enter into that lease-purchase arrangement, (II) the maximum term
of any lease-purchase arrangement
does not exceed ten (10) years, (III)
the aggregate principal obligation
of the City under the lease-purchase arrangement does not exceed
$8,900,000, (IV) if the lease-purchase
arrangement provides that the lease
payments are to have a principal
component and an interest component, the maximum interest rate for
the interest component does not
exceed seven percent (7%) per
annum, (V) the obligations of the
City
under
that
lease-purchase
arrangement for fiscal years beginning after December 31, 2005 are
subject to annual appropriations
being made by the City sufficient to
pay the lease payments and to meet
the other obligations of the City
under that lease-purchase arrangement in each of these fiscal years,
and (VI) the obligations of the City
thereunder for the current fiscal
year do not exceed $750,000, which
amount is hereby appropriated for
that
purpose.
The
Director
of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver, for and on behalf of the City
and in the Director’s official capacity, such written agreements, certificates and instruments as may be
necessary or appropriate in order to
provide
for
that
lease-purchase
arrangement under the terms and
conditions authorized herein and
containing such additional terms
and conditions as are acceptable to
the Director of Finance and the
Director of Law. Those agreements
may include a lease-purchase agreement, an escrow agreement for the
deposit by the lessor of the purchase
price of the vehicles and apparatus,
acceptance certificates evidencing
the City’s acceptance of the vehicles
from the vendors, and certificates as
to insurance, tax compliance and
related matters necessary to carry
out the transaction. The lease-purchase arrangement may provide that
the lease payments are to have a
principal component and an interest
component and that the interest
component is to be excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes. In that event, the Director
of Finance and other City officials,
as appropriate, are authorized to
covenant on behalf of the City that
(I) the City will use and will
restrict the use of the vehicles and
apparatus leased by the City under
the lease-purchase agreement and
will use, and will restrict the investment of, any proceeds of the leasepurchase agreement in such manner
and to such extent as may be necessary so that the lease-purchase
agreement will not constitute a private activity bond, an arbitrage
bond or a hedge bond under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the “Code”), or be treated
other than as an obligation to which
Section 103(a) of the Code applies,
and (II) the City will take or cause
to be taken such actions that may
be required of it for the interest
component of the lease payments to
be and to remain excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes and the City will not take
or authorize to be taken any actions
that would adversely affect that

14
exclusion. In the event that the City
enters into such a lease-purchase
arrangement, the Director of Public
Service may assign to the lessor
under the lease-purchase arrangement, or the lessor’s designee, the
rights of the City under the contracts for purchase of the vehicles
and apparatus authorized in Section
1 of this ordinance. The Director of
Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officials of the City are
authorized to sign and deliver any
documents, certificates and other
instruments as the Director of Law
determines are necessary and appropriate to carry out the transactions authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That it is hereby found
and determined that all formal actions of this Council concerning and
relating to the passage of this Ordinance where adopted in open meetings of this Council, and any of its
committees that resulted in such formal action were in meetings open to
the public in compliance with the law.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 763-05.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the United States Department of Justice for the 2005 Edward Byrne
Memorial Justice Assistance Grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
amount of $435,994, from the United
States Department of Justice to conduct the 2005 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Program;
that the Director is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the application
for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the application for
the grant File No. 763-05-A made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority, is approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
if the extension does not involve an
increase in the dollar amount of the
grant specified above.
Section 4. That this ordinance is

The City Record
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 764-05.
By Council Members Johnson and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
one or more Concession Agreements
for the operation of first class food
and beverage service at Convention
Center and other City-owned or Cityleased facilities under the control of
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, for a period not to
exceed seven years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties is authorized to
enter into one or more Concession
Agreements on the basis of competitive proposals for the operation of
first class food and beverage service
at Convention Center and other Cityowned or City-leased facilities under
the control of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties. The selection of the concessionaire or concessionaires shall be made by the Board
of Control on the nomination of the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties. The concession fee to be
paid to the City shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. Each Concession
Agreement shall not exceed a term of
seven years.
Section 2. That the Concession
Agreement or Agreements shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 765-05.
By Council Members Johnson and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Finance to
enter into one or more contracts
with the Cleveland Board of Education to conduct recreational, cultural, and extracurricular programs for
the benefit of school children during
the 2004-2005 school year.

724

April 27, 2005
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1025-A-95, passed June 28, 1995, tax
revenues from levying the parking
facility tax and increases in the
motor vehicle lessor tax and the
admission tax can be used to fund
recreational, cultural, and extracurricular programs within the Cleveland School system; and
Whereas, the Joint Board established by Ordinance No. 1025-A-95
has recommended that a portion of
the tax proceeds be used to fund a
number of recreational, cultural, and
extracurricular programs for City
school children during the 2004-2005
school year, including dance, drama,
instrumental, vocal, cheerleading,
aquatic, sports, and academic enrichment programs; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and Finance are authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with the
Board of Education of the Cleveland
City School District to conduct various recreational, cultural and extracurricular programs for the benefit
of City school children during the
2004-2005 school year, under the program description contained File No.
765-05-A. The cost of the contract or
contracts shall not exceed $2,000,000
and shall be payable from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
proceeds of the taxes levied under
Ordinance No. 1025-A-95, passed June
28, 1995, under such terms and conditions as are acceptable to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 766-05.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Johnson and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to sublease
property at 3207 Franklin Boulevard
from Ohio City Near West Development Corporation, for a term to run
conterminously with the Ohio City’s
ground lease, for the public purpose
of improving and expanding Fairview Park.
Whereas, the County of Cuyahoga
(“County”) owns property located at
3207 Franklin Boulevard; and
Whereas, the County currently
leases that property to the Ohio City
Near West Development Corporation
(“Ohio City”) for charitable and/or
public purposes, through its original
lease, as amended (“Ground Lease”);
and

April 27, 2005
Whereas, Ohio City desires to sublease to the City of Cleveland a portion of the premises identified in the
Ground Lease described above to be
used to improve and expand Fairview Park; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2151-03, passed December 15, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 1308-04, passed August 11,
2004, Ordinance No. 2365-04, passed
January 24, 2005, and Ordinance No.
278-05, passed March 21, 2005, this
Council authorized, among other
things, authority for the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
enter into one or more contracts for
constructing, rehabilitating, renovating, replacing, or otherwise improving City-owned or City-leased parks
and recreation facilities, and their
design; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is authorized to sublease from Ohio City certain property more fully described
as follows:
Permanent Parcel Nos. 003-31-002,
003-31-003 and 003-31-028
Proposed Lot Split
City of Cleveland and County of
Cuyahoga Parcel
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being parts of
Sublot Numbers 4 and 5 in the Taylor Farm Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Number
51 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 2 of Maps, Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Records and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the Westerly line of West 32nd Street, (50
feet wide) measured along said
Westerly line, about 327.00 feet
Southerly of the Southerly line of
Franklin Boulevard S.W. (66 feet
wide); thence along a line parallel
with the Southerly line of said
Franklin Boulevard N.W. and 320.00
feet
Southerly
therefrom
about
195.00 feet to a point in the Westerly line of the Cuyahoga County
Board
of
Commissioners
parcel
recorded in Volume 9960, Page 36 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
said
point being 320.00 feet Southerly of
the Southerly line of said Franklin
Boulevard N.W.; thence Southerly
along said Westerly line of land so
conveyed, 36.00 feet to an angle
point therein; thence along the irregular Southwesterly line of land so
conveyed, about 59.00 feet to an
angle point therein; thence continuing along said irregular Southwesterly line about 121.00 feet to an
angle point therein; thence continuing along said irregular Southwesterly line about 141.00 feet to a point
at the Southerly line of said land as
conveyed to the County Commissioners Board of Cuyahoga County

The City Record
in Volume 8263, Page 634; thence
Easterly, along a line parallel with
and distant Northerly by rectangular measure about 147.00 feet from
the Northerly line of Woodbine
Avenue N.W., 87.00 feet to its intersection with the Westerly line of
said
West
32nd
Street;
thence
Northerly, along said Westerly line
of West 32nd Street, about 364.00
feet to the principal place of beginning
containing
approximately
39,580 sq. ft. or 0.9086 acre of land.
Section 2. That the term of the
sublease authorized by this ordinance shall run conterminously with
the term of the Ground Lease and
shall terminate on the same date as
the Ground Lease terminates.
Section 3. That the rent for the
sublease authorized by this ordinance shall be fair market value as
determined by the Board of Control.
Section 4. That the sublease may
authorize the City to make improvements to the premises identified in
Section 1 of this ordinance under
terms to be determined by the parties consistent with the public purpose or purposes of improving and
expanding Fairview Park.
Section 5. That the sublease may
provide for the City’s payment of
appropriate utility and other operating costs of the leased premises.
Section 6. That the costs of the
sublease shall be paid from the
appropriate fund or funds to be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance.
Section 7. That the sublease shall
be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 8. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and the Director of Law, and other
appropriate City officials, are authorized to execute such other documents and certificates, and take
such other actions as may be necessary or appropriate to effect the
sublease authorized by this ordinance.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Property and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 767-05.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development
Block Grant funds and Federal
HOME funds for the operation of the
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs; and to enter into one or more
contracts with various agencies to
implement these programs.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 31 and 2005
Federal HOME grant funds, from
the United States Government; and

725

15
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Community
Development
Block
Grant
funds
from Fund No. 14 SF 031 in the
amount of $2,060,000, and Federal
HOME Program funds from Fund 13
SF 236 in the amount of $1,010,518,
Request 149503, in the total amount
of $3,070,518 are appropriated for the
operation of the Low Interest Loan
and Grant Programs, including all
related services. The Low Interest
Loan and Grant Programs include
Repair-A-Home (RAH), Corrective
Action Grant, Afford-A-Home (AAH),
Senior Home Owners Assistance Program (SHAP), Paint Refund Program, Housewarming, Furnace Repair, Home Maintenance Assistance
Program (HMAP), and American
Dream
Downpayment
Assistance
Program.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with various non-profit agencies,
rehabilitation
service
providers, tenants, homeowners, and
entities providing services necessary to process loans and grants to
implement the Low Interest Loan
and Grant Programs in the City of
Cleveland.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
under the programs and to utilize
the repayments, and other program
income in a revolving fund for additional expenditures under these programs and administrative expenses,
which
repayments
and
program
income are appropriated for those
purposes.
Section 4. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes,
naming the City of Cleveland as
payee, and mortgages, naming the
City of Cleveland as mortgagee, and
any other security instrument executed to evidence and secure repayment of loans made under this program.
Section 5. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into forbearance
agreements with any recipient of a
validly existing loan administered
by the City, and to charge and
accept fees to cover costs incurred
in the preparation of loan documents, closing, and servicing costs.
Such fees shall be deposited into
Fund No. 14 and are hereby appropriated for the purposes of the Low
Interest Loan and Grant Program.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

16
Ord. No. 768-05.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Community
Development
and
Building
and
Housing to enter into one or more
contracts without competitive bidding with Hewlett-Packard Co. and
Progress Software for the purchase
of computer hardware and software
maintenance, for the Departments of
Community Development and Building and Housing, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council has
determined that the within commodities are non-competitive and
cannot be secured from any source
other
than
Hewlett-Packard
Co.
Therefore the Directors of Community Development and Building and
Housing are authorized to make one
or more written contracts with
Hewlett-Packard Co. on the basis of
its proposal, for computer hardware
maintenance for a period not to
exceed two years, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies for a gross price for
the
Departments
of
Community
Development
and
Building
and
Housing.
Section 2. That this Council has
determined that the within commodities are non-competitive and
cannot be secured from any source
other
than
Progress
Software.
Therefore the Directors of Community Development and Building and
Housing are authorized to make one
or more written contracts with
Progress Software for maintenance
on ACES software for a period not
to exceed two years, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and supplies for a gross price for
the
Departments
of
Community
Development
and
Building
and
Housing.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 01-800101661200, 01-850101-661200, and 14 SF
031, Request No. 149507.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development,
Building
and
Housing, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 769-05.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into one or more
contracts with Cleveland Action to
Support Housing, Inc. (CASH) for
administrative costs to implement

The City Record
housing rehabilitation, new housing
construction and commercial redevelopment loan programs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with Cleveland Action to Support
Housing,
Inc.
(CASH)
for
administrative costs to implement
housing rehabilitation, new housing
construction and commercial redevelopment loan programs in the City
of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the aggregate cost
of the contracts shall not exceed
$500,000.00, and shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 14 SF 030 and 14 SF 031,
Request No. 125798.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 770-05.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into or amend
contracts with various social service
agencies, community development or
local development corporations and
private for profit entities; to enter
into or amend memorandums of
understanding with various City of
Cleveland departments to implement
the City’s community development
programs; and to expend funds for
the operation of programs administered by the Department of Community Development.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 31 from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland has approved the Year
31 Community Development Block
Grant Plan as set forth in File No.
71-05-A, pursuant to Ordinance No.
71-05, passed March 28, 2005; and
Whereas, in prior Block Grant
years, the Council has approved
Block Grant Plans; and
Whereas, the Block Grant Plans
as approved commit funds to Neighborhood
Development
Activities
(“NDA”), which are CDBG eligible
activities proposed by the various
Council members; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development, after receiving the approval stated in Sec-

726

April 27, 2005
tion 4 below, is authorized to enter
into or amend contracts with various social service agencies, community development or local development corporations, private for profit entities, State of Ohio, Cuyahoga
County, Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority, Cleveland Municipal
School District, Regional Transit
Authority, Northeast Ohio Regional
Sewer District, Cleveland Metroparks, and such other governmental
entities as defined under the Ohio
Revised Code to implement activities and programs that are eligible
under the Community Development
Block Grant (“CDBG”) Program and
are consistent with the City’s Community Development objectives and
policies.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development, after receiving the approval stated in Section 4 below, is authorized to enter
into or amend memorandums of
understanding with various City
departments to implement activities
and programs that are eligible
under the CDBG Program and are
consistent with the City’s Community Development objectives and policies.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development, after receiving the approval stated in Section 4 below, is authorized to expend
NDA funds for any CDBG eligible
Programs administered by the Department of Community Development including entering into contract
with
rehabilitation
service
providers, tenants, homeowners, and
entities providing services necessary to process loans and grants to
implement the Low Interest Loan
and Grant Programs, Paint Refund
Program and other programs administered by the Department of Community Development.
Section 4. That prior to entering
into or amending those contracts or
memorandums of understanding, or
expending any funds, the Director
of Community Development shall
receive written approval from the
Council member whose ward line
item is to fund the activity or program, provided that the amount for
such activity or program does not
exceed the amount allocated for the
Council member’s ward pursuant to
the relevant Community Development Block Grant plan.
Section 5. That the cost of the contracts, memorandums of understanding and expenditures for the programs administered by the Department of Community Development
shall not exceed $8,400,000.00 and
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 14 SF
028, 14 SF 029, 14 SF 030 and 14 SF
031.
Section 6. That the Director of
the
Department
of
Community
Development is authorized to enter
into or amend contracts with the
entities administering the NDA program
that
generated
program
income in an amount not to exceed
that generated program income and
to expend funds for the programs
administered by the Department of
Community Development that generated
program
income
in
an
amount not to exceed that generated program income all to be paid
from the revolving fund in Fund
14.

April 27, 2005
Section 7. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes
naming the City of Cleveland as
payee, and mortgages, naming the
City of Cleveland as mortgagee, and
any other security instrument executed to evidence and secure repayment of loans made under this program.
Section 8. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter in forbearance agreements with any recipient of a validly existing loan administered by the
City, and to charge and accept fees
and to expend such fees to cover
costs incurred in the preparation of
loan documents, closing, and servicing costs.
Such fees shall be
deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 14.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 771-05.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement Ordinance No. 370-05, passed
March 28, 2005, relating to a contract
with 1104 Prospect Avenue Park
And Lock, LLC, or its designee, to
provide economic development assistance to partially finance the construction and rehabilitation of the
Prospect Place Apartments located
at 1004 Prospect Avenue, and all
other associated costs necessary to
redevelop the property, by adding
additional
whereas
clauses
that
relate to the Housing Advisory
Board.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Ordinance No. 37005, passed March 28, 2005, is supplemented by adding the following new
whereas clauses:
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland has determined that to
enhance the availability of adequate
housing in the City and to improve
the economic and general well-being
of the people of the City it is in the
public interest and a proper public
purpose for the City to provide
and/or assist in providing housing
for individuals and families; and
Whereas, in compliance with Section 16, of Article VIII, Ohio Constitution and Ohio Revised Code Sections 133 et seq. and 176 et seq., the
City has established a Housing
Advisory Board for review of the
City’s
comprehensive
affordable
housing strategy and various housing assistance programs; and
Whereas, consistent with the Ohio
Constitution and State statutes, the

The City Record
City provided its five-year comprehensive housing affordability strategy for the City developed under the
“Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act” (the “Plan”) for
the development and maintenance of
affordable housing within the City
boundaries to the Housing Advisory
Board for its review and recommendations; and
Whereas, after review by the
Housing Advisory Board in excess
of 30 days, the Board unanimously
approved the Plan; and
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board, after reviewing in excess of
15
days
the
proposed
project,
approved the project; and
Whereas, Council desires to authorize the development assistance to
the project which has been approved
by the Housing Advisory Board in
compliance with the Ohio Constitution and statutory requirements; and
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 772-05.
By
Council
Members
Gordon,
White and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 3107.07 and 3107.08 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1190-04, passed August 11, 2004,
relating to qualifications for certificates of registration and limited certificates of registration.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 3107.07
and 3107.08 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1190-04,
passed August 11, 2004, are amended to read as follows:
Section 3107.07 Qualifications for
Certificates of Registration
(a) To obtain or renew a Certificate of Registration as a heating,
ventilating or air conditioning contractor, electrical contractor, plumbing contractor, refrigeration contractor, or hydronics contractor, the
applicant shall:
(1) Have a valid and unexpired
license issued by the Ohio Construction Industry Examining Board
as that type of contractor and present proof of that license.
(2) Present proof of the insurance
required in the Ohio Revised Code.
(3) Furnish and file with the
Director a bond in the penal sum
of
twenty-five
thousand
dollars
($25,000) to be approved as to form
by the Director of Law, guarantee-

727

17
ing full and faithful compliance by
the applicant with OBC and this
Building Code and with pertinent
rules and regulations promulgated
under it, binding the surety to correct or abate any violation of OBC
or this Building Code or of pertinent
rules and regulations promulgated
under them whenever the applicant
for registration, named as the principal on the bond, refuses, neglects
or fails to correct or abate the violation within a reasonable time limit
set by the Director.
(b) To obtain or renew a Certificate of Registration as a general
contractor, which includes sewer
builders and demolition contractors,
the applicant shall:
(1) Be at least eighteen years of
age.
(2) Be a United States citizen.
(3) Maintain contractor’s liability
insurance, including without limitation, completed operations coverage,
in an amount providing for the payment of up to fifty thousand dollars
($50,000) for one person injured, and
up to one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) for injury to more than
one person in one accident, resulting from doing the work authorized
by the Certificate of Registration
and up to fifty thousand dollars
($50,000) for property damage in the
course of doing the work authorized
by the Certificate of Registration.
The City shall be named as an additional insured. The insurance shall
be issued by an insurance company
duly authorized to do business and
issue policies of insurance in the
State of Ohio. The insurance company shall be required to give at
least ten days’ notice in writing to
the Director before the cancellation
of the policy. The applicant shall
provide proof of this insurance
acceptable to the Director. In place
of the insurance described above,
the applicant may present evidence
of self insurance equivalent to the
above-required insurance.
(4) Furnish and file with the
Director a bond in the penal sum
of
twenty-five
thousand
dollars
($25,000) to be approved as to form
by the Director of Law, guaranteeing full and faithful compliance by
the applicant with OBC and this
Building Code and with pertinent
rules and regulations promulgated
under it, binding the surety to correct or abate any violation of OBC
or this Building Code or of pertinent
rules and regulations promulgated
under them whenever the applicant
for registration, named as the principal on the bond, refuses, neglects
or fails to correct or abate the violation within a reasonable time limit
set by the Director. A general contractor who performs sewer building
work or demolition work shall furnish and file a similar bond for each
of those types of work.
(5) Not have done any of the following:
A. Been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude or of any felony
less than three years before application for said Certificate of Registration unless a longer period is
established by rules and regulations of the Director of Building
and Housing.

18
B. Obtained or renewed a Certificate of Registration by fraud, misrepresentation or deception.
C. Engaged in fraud, misrepresentation or deception in the conduct of
business.
D. Been convicted of repeated violations of the OBC or this Building
Code or other laws or ordinances
regulating building construction in
the City.
E. Been issued repeated violation
notices by the Director for violations of the OBC, this Building Code,
the Zoning Code or the Housing
Code, and failed to correct those
notices in a timely fashion.
(c) When an applicant for a Certificate of Registration is a firm or
corporation, at least one member of
that firm or corporation, shall individually be qualified for registration under the provisions of this section.
(d) The insurance and bond requirements in this section do not
apply to City employees who perform work on City buildings or
structures used for the City’s purposes.
Section 3107.08 Qualifications for
Limited Certificate of Registration
(a) To obtain or renew a Limited
Certificate
of
Registration
for
Refrigeration Operator or Fireplace
Installer, the applicant shall:
(1) Be at least eighteen years of
age.
(2) Be a United States citizen.
(3) Maintain contractor’s liability
insurance, including without limitation, completed operations coverage,
in an amount providing for the payment of up to fifty thousand dollars
($50,000) for one person injured, and
up to one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) for injury to more than
one person in one accident, resulting from doing the work authorized
by the Certificate of Registration
and up to fifty thousand dollars
($50,000) for property damage in the
course of doing the work authorized
by the Certificate of Registration.
The City shall be named as an additional insured. The insurance shall
be issued by an insurance company
duly authorized to do business and
issue policies of insurance in the
State of Ohio. The insurance company shall be required to give at
least ten days' notice in writing to
the Director before the cancellation
of the policy. The applicant shall
provide proof of this insurance
acceptable to the Director. In place
of insurance described above, the
applicant may present evidence of
self insurance equivalent to the
above-required insurance.
(4) Furnish and file with the
Director a bond in the penal sum
of
twenty-five
thousand
dollars
($25,000) to be approved as to form
by the Director of Law, guaranteeing full and faithful compliance by
the applicant with OBC and this
Building Code and with pertinent
rules and regulations promulgated
under it, binding the surety to correct or abate any violation of OBC
or this Building Code or of pertinent
rules and regulations promulgated
under them whenever the applicant
for registration, named as the principal on the bond, refuses, neglects
or fails to correct or abate the vio-

The City Record
lation within a reasonable time limit
set by the Director.
(5) Not have done any of the following:
A. Been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude or of any felony less
than three years before application
for said Certificate of Registration
unless a longer period is established
by rules and regulations of the
Director of Building and Housing.
B. Obtained or renewed a Certificate of Registration by fraud, misrepresentation or deception.
C. Engaged in fraud, misrepresentation or deception in the conduct of
business.
D. Been convicted of repeated violations of the OBC or this Building
Code or other laws or ordinances
regulating building construction in
the City.
E. Been issued repeated violation
notices by the Director for violations of the OBC, this Building Code,
the Zoning Code or the Housing
Code, and failed to correct those
notices in a timely fashion.
(6) If a Limited Certificate of
Refrigeration
Operator,
be
the
owner or owner’s agent of the
refrigeration system and be familiar
with the operation and maintenance
of the refrigeration system.
(b) When an applicant for a Limited Certificate Registration is a
firm or corporation, at least one
member of that firm or corporation,
shall individually be qualified for
registration under the provisions of
this section.
(c) The insurance and bond requirements in this section do not
apply to City employees who perform work on City buildings or
structures used for the City’s purposes.
Section 2. That existing Sections
3107.07 and 3107.08 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as amended by Ordinance No. 119004, passed August 11, 2004, are
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Building
and Housing, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 782-05.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1 and 2 of
Ordinance No. 1855-04, passed December 6, 2004; to supplement the ordinance by adding new Section 4; and
to renumber existing Section 4 to
new Section 5, relating to the Director of City Planning applying for
and accepting a grant from the
Cleveland Foundation for the Connecting Cleveland 2020 Citywide
Plan Program and authorizing professional
services
necessary
to
implement the grant.

728

April 27, 2005
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 185504, passed December 6, 2004, are
amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of City Planning to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Cleveland Foundation for the
Connecting Cleveland 2020 Citywide
Plan Program; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more
contracts with Dennis Dooley and
the Kent State Urban Design Center
for professional services necessary
to implement the grant.
Section 1. That the Director of
City Planning is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
amount of $40,000, from the Cleveland Foundation to conduct the Connecting Cleveland 2020 Citywide
Plan Program; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
proposal for the grant contained in
the file described below.
Section 2. That the proposal for
the grant, File No. 1855-04-A, made
a part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, including the obligation
of the City of Cleveland to provide
cash matching funds in the amount
of $15,000, from the fund or funds
designated
by
the
Director
of
Finance,
is
approved
in
all
respects.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance
No. 1855-04, passed December 6, 2004,
are repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 185504, passed December 6, 2004 is supplemented by adding new Section 4
to read as follows:
Section 4. That the Director of
City Planning is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with the Kent State Urban Design
Center for professional services
necessary to implement the grant
as described in the file, for the
Department of City Planning. The
contract or contracts shall be paid
from the fund or funds which are
credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance and the
cash match.
Section 4. That existing Section 4
of Ordinance No. 1855-04, passed
December 6, 2004 is renumbered to
new “Section 5”.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law;
Committees
on
City
Planning,
Finance.

The City Record

April 27, 2005
Ord. No. 783-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 485-03,
passed March 31, 2003; and authorizing the Director of Finance to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. 61226 with Oracle Corporation, to
extend the term for not to exceed
two years.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 485-03,
passed March 31, 2003, authorized
the Director of Finance to enter into
Contract No. 61226 for the acquisition of Oracle software licenses and
not more than twenty additional
Oracle Corporation products both as
the Director of Finance determines
necessary from time to time during
a two-year period and for the purchase of maintenance and support
services for the software licenses
and any additional Oracle products
acquired; and
Whereas, to realize costs savings
and to align with future web-based
applications, including the Kronos
Time and Attendance System, and
Accella Permitting and Code Enforcement applications which will
require Oracle licenses to operate
the City desires to extend the term

of the contract for an additional two
years; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 485-03, passed March 31,
2003, is amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That it is determined
that the within commodities and services are non-competitive and cannot be secured from any source
other
than
Oracle
Corporation.
Therefore, the Director of Finance
is authorized to enter into one or
more agreements with said company, under the terms of Oracle’s
March 18, 2003 proposal, for the
acquisition
of
Oracle
software
licenses and of not more than twenty (20) additional Oracle Corporation products, both as the Director
of Finance determines necessary
from time to time during a period
not exceeding four (4) years, and
for the purchase of maintenance and
support services for the software
licenses and any additional Oracle
products acquired, for a period of

19
one (1) year from the licenses and
products acquisition date, with not
to exceed four (4) options, exercisable in writing by the Director of
Finance, to renew for consecutive
one (1) year terms.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 485-03, passed
March 31, 2003, is repealed.
Section 3. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
an amendment to Contract No. 61226
with Oracle Corporation to implement the amendment authorized in
Section 1 by extending the term of
the existing contract for an additional two-year period.
Section 4. That the amendment
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

FIRST READING ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 784-05.
By Council Member Rybka.
An ordinance changing the zoning of properties located on the west side of East 55th Street between Blanche
Ave. and Mound Ave. and on the East side of East 49th Street from a General Industry District

and a ‘3’ Height

District to an RA2 Townhouse District and a ‘1’ Height District(Map Change No. 2150, Sheet No. 6).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of East 55th Street (50 feet wide) at its intersection with Blanche Avenue (40 feet
wide);
Thence Southerly along said centerline of East 55th Street to its intersection with the Northerly line of the
Mound Street Allotment Part of Original 100 Acre Lot 316 as shown on the recorded plat in Volume 26 of Maps,
Page 19 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Northwesterly along said Northerly line to its intersection with the Northerly prolongation of the Easterly
line of East 54th Street (50 feet wide);
Thence Southerly along said prolongation and Easterly line to the Easterly prolongation of the centerline of
Eliza Avenue (50 feet wide);
Thence Westerly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of East 53 Street (35 feet wide);
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Northerly line
of Sublot Number 177 in the Joseph Stanley Estate Subdivision Part of Original 100 Acre Lot 316 as shown on
the recorded plat in Volume 18 of Maps, Page 5 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Westerly along said Easterly prolongation and Northerly line to its intersection with a Westerly line
of the Joseph Stanley Estate Subdivision;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line and its prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Kirkham
Avenue (30 feet wide);
Thence Westerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Easterly line of the F. H. Eggers Subdivision
as shown on the recorded plat in Volume 13 of Maps, Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the Northerly line of Sublot Number 233 in
said F. H. Eggers Subdivision;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of East 50 Street (45 feet wide);
Thence Northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Chard Avenue (40 feet wide);
Thence Westerly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of East 49 Street (50 feet wide);
Thence Northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the Northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to the City of Cleveland by Deed dated February 1, 2005 and recorded as Auditor’s File Number
200502010335;
Thence Easterly along said Northerly line and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of East 52 Street (50 feet wide);

729

The City Record

20

April 27, 2005

Thence Northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Blanche Avenue (40 feet wide);
Thence Easterly along said centerline to the principal place of beginning.
and as outlined and shaded on the attached map is changed to an RA2 Townhouse District and a ‘1’ Height
District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2150, Sheet No. 6, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person
designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

730

The City Record

April 27, 2005

21

FIRST READING EMERGENCY ORDINANCES READ IN FULL AND PASSED
Ord. No. 773-05.
By Council Members Lewis and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Cleveland Building and Construction Trades Council; and amending Section 43 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1099-03, passed June 10, 2003 and Ordinance No. 1267-03, passed July 16, 2003, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code, this Council approves the collective
bargaining agreement with the Cleveland Building and Construction Trades Council, under the terms contained
in File No. 773-05-A, for the period from April 1, 2004 through March 31, 2007, and which provides, among other
things, for an increase in the salaries and wages for members of the bargaining unit.
Section 2. That Section 43 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 1099-03,
passed June 10, 2003 and Ordinance No. 1267-03, passed July 16, 2003, is amended to read as follows:
Section 43. Hourly Rate - Building & Construction Trades Council
Compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by
the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification:
Effective
Date

Minimum

Maximum
$41.90

1.

Asbestos Worker .........................................................................

5/1/04

$32.22

2.

Boiler Maker .................................................................................

7/1/04

$33.88

$42.35

3.

Bricklayer ......................................................................................

5/1/04

$28.06

$36.16

4.

Bricklayer Foreman ...................................................................

5/1/04

$28.86

$37.73

5.

Carpenter ........................................................................................

5/1/04

$27.76

$35.77
$37.34

6.

Carpenter Foreman.....................................................................

5/1/04

$28.76

7.

Carpenter Apprentice.................................................................

5/1/04

$14.45

$18.06

8.

Cement Finisher ..........................................................................

5/1/04

$28.13

$36.36

9.

Cement Finisher Foreman.......................................................

5/1/04

$28.93

$37.93

10.

Electrical Worker .......................................................................

5/1/04

$33.87

$44.17
$45.74

11.

Electrical Worker Foreman ....................................................

5/1/04

$34.67

12.

Glazier .............................................................................................

5/1/04

$27.86

$34.82

13.

Ironworker .....................................................................................

8/1/04

$32.37

$41.56

14.

Ironworker Foreman..................................................................

8/1/04

$34.17

$43.13

15.

Painter.............................................................................................

6/1/04

$27.26

$35.20

16.

Painter – Apprentice .................................................................

5/1/04

$14.46

$18.06

17.

Painter Foreman .........................................................................

6/1/04

$28.06

$36.76

18.

Pipefitter (Welder) ....................................................................

5/1/04

$33.52

$43.42

19.

Pipefitter Foreman .....................................................................

5/1/04

$34.32

$44.99

20.

Plasterer .........................................................................................

5/1/04

$27.86

$35.89

21.

Plasterer Foreman ......................................................................

5/1/04

$28.66

$37.45

22.

Plumber (Welder).......................................................................

5/1/04

$33.53

$43.53

23.

Plumber Foreman .......................................................................

5/1/04

$34.33

$45.09

24.

Roofer ..............................................................................................

5/1/04

$28.42

$36.63

25.

Sheet Metal Worker ...................................................................

5/1/04

$31.50

$40.99

26.

Sheet Metal Worker Foreman................................................

5/1/04

$32.30

$42.56

Section 3. That Section 43 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 1099-03,
passed June 10, 2003 and Ordinance No. 1267-03, passed July 16, 2003, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 774-05.
By Council Members Lewis and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with the International Local 100,
AFSCME Ohio Council 8 AFL-CIO; and amending Sections 8, 28, 37, and 40, of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March
10, 2003, as amended, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:

731

The City Record

22

April 27, 2005

Section 1. That under division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code, this Council approves the collective
bargaining agreement with the International Local 100, AFSCME Ohio Council 8 AFL-CIO, under the terms contained in File No. 774-05-A, for the period from April 1, 2004 through March 31, 2007, and which provides, among
other things, for an increase in the salaries and wages for members of the bargaining unit under the following
schedule:
Increase

Effective Date of Increase

3%

April 1, 2006

In addition to the percentage increase effective April 1, 2006, eligible members of the bargaining unit will receive
a separate payment in the amount of $500.00 on or about May 1, 2005, which amount is not part of the member’s
wage base.
Section 2. That the following Sections of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003:
Section 8 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance Nos. 605-03, passed June 10,
2003, 1801-03, passed October 13, 2003, and 1814-04, passed October 4, 2004,
Section 28 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 605-03, passed June 10,
2003, Ordinance 1801-03, passed October 13, 2003, Ordinance No. 1501-04, passed August 11, 2004, and Ordinance No.
1814-04, passed October 4, 2004,
Section 37 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 605-03, passed June 10,
2003, and
Section 40 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 605-03, passed June 10,
2003, and Ordinance No. 1814-04, passed October 4, 2004.
are amended to read as follows:
Section 8. International Local 100, AFSCME Ohio Council 8 AFL-CIO. That salaries in the following classifications
shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.

Accountant I .................................................................................
Accountant II ...............................................................................
Accountant III..............................................................................
Accountant Clerk I.....................................................................
Accountant Clerk II...................................................................
Activities Therapist ...................................................................
AIDS Support Services Coordinator .....................................
Air Pollution Control Engineer I .........................................
Air Pollution Control Engineer II .......................................
Air Pollution Control Engineer III .....................................
Air Pollution Engineer .............................................................
Air Pollution Inspector I .........................................................
Air Pollution Inspector II .......................................................
Air Pollution Technician I......................................................
Air Pollution Technician II ....................................................
Air Pollution Technician III ..................................................
Airport Information Representative ....................................
Airport Operations Agent I.....................................................
Airport Operations Agent II...................................................
Airport Safety Man ....................................................................
Architect .........................................................................................
Associate Engineer.....................................................................
Assistant Buyer ...........................................................................
Assistant City Planner .............................................................
Assistant Civil Engineer..........................................................
Assistant Electrical Engineer................................................
Assistant Mechanical Engineer .............................................
Assistant Plan Examiner.........................................................
Associate Programmer ..............................................................
Bacteriologist................................................................................
Bill Collector.................................................................................
Billing Clerk .................................................................................
Building Inspector ......................................................................
Camera Room Operator ............................................................
Caseworker I ................................................................................
Caseworker II ..............................................................................
Cashier/Starter .............................................................................
Chemist ...........................................................................................
Chief Miscellaneous Investigator..........................................
Citizens Information Representative...................................
Civil Engineer ..............................................................................
Claims Examiner.........................................................................
Clerk Typist..................................................................................
Clinical Laboratory Assistant ................................................

732

Minimum
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
10.49
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
12.04
$
12.12
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
10.02
$
14.14
$
17.77
$
14.19
$
9.73
$
17.83
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
13.42
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
10.02
$
9.89
$
14.26
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
9.66
$
9.66

Maximum
$
17.95
$
19.69
$
21.83
$
14.54
$
15.71
$
13.82
$
15.46
$
23.08
$
24.33
$
25.63
$
18.02
$
18.57
$
20.71
$
19.69
$
20.71
$
23.08
$
15.08
$
18.65
$
21.95
$
19.07
$
27.14
$
25.39
$
18.83
$
19.69
$
19.69
$
19.69
$
19.69
$
20.71
$
21.10
$
21.82
$
15.08
$
15.07
$
20.02
$
17.14
$
16.37
$
17.95
$
17.95
$
23.85
$
20.71
$
17.14
$
27.14
$
20.71
$
11.24
$
17.14

April 27, 2005
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.

The City Record

Clinical Laboratory Technician I .........................................
Clinical Laboratory Technician II .......................................
Cocaine Treatment Counselor I ............................................
Cocaine Intake Specialist ........................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspector I .................................................................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector II ....................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspector III..............................................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspector/Heating I ...............................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspection/Heating II ...........................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspection/Heating III..........................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspector/Refrigeration I.....................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspector/Refrigeration II ...................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspector/Refrigeration III .................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspector/Trainee....................................................................
Community Development Planner ........................................
Community Health Aide...........................................................
Community Relations Representative I .............................
Community Relations Representative II ...........................
Community Relations Representative III..........................
Composing Equipment Operator............................................
Computer Monitor Assistant ...................................................
Computer Operator......................................................................
Construction Technician...........................................................
Consumer Protection Specialist .............................................
Contract and Monitoring Specialist .....................................
Cook .................................................................................................
Copy Center Operator................................................................
Cost Construction Estimator...................................................
Customer Service Representative .........................................
Data Control Clerk.....................................................................
Data Conversion Operator .......................................................
Dental Assistant ..........................................................................
Development Officer ..................................................................
Dietician .........................................................................................
Disease Surveillance Specialist .............................................
Drug and Alcohol Counselor ..................................................
Electrical Engineer ....................................................................
Electronic Engineer ...................................................................
Elevator Inspector ......................................................................
Engineer .........................................................................................
Environmental Compliance Specialist I .............................
Environmental Compliance Specialist II ...........................
Environmental Compliance Specialist III .........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist I...........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist II.........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist III .......................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist I ..............................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist II ............................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist III...........................
Environmental Technician ......................................................
Family Planning Clerk.............................................................
Financial Analyst .......................................................................
Financial Counselor ...................................................................
First Press Operator ..................................................................
Fuel System Technician...........................................................
General Health Aide..................................................................
General Storekeeper ...................................................................
Geriatric Outreach Worker .....................................................
Hardware Analyst ......................................................................
Hazardous Material Specialist ...............................................
Head Cook .....................................................................................
Head Storekeeper ........................................................................
Health Educator I ......................................................................

733

23
$
$
$
$

9.66
9.66
9.66
9.95

$
$
$
$

19.69
21.10
16.30
14.67

$

14.08

$

21.84

$

14.89

$

23.08

$

15.70

$

24.33

$

14.08

$

21.84

$

14.89

$

23.08

$

15.70

$

24.33

$

14.05

$

21.84

$

14.89

$

23.08

$

15.70

$

24.33

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

9.97
9.87
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
12.02
9.66
9.66
11.38
9.66
9.66
10.03
9.66
9.92
9.66
9.66
9.66
14.42
9.66
9.66
9.66
14.23
22.78
14.95
16.35
17.90
14.95
16.35
17.90
13.33
14.18
15.74
12.35
9.66
9.66
9.66
12.00
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
14.48
21.63
9.66
9.66
9.66

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

17.62
26.11
14.53
17.14
20.71
25.63
18.83
12.45
20.71
20.71
16.37
21.91
14.18
16.64
20.16
15.70
15.09
13.67
14.25
24.32
17.94
28.85
13.34
27.14
27.63
21.84
30.90
20.63
21.61
27.81
21.48
22.51
23.59
21.29
22.29
23.36
18.56
12.57
19.69
20.71
19.76
18.30
14.54
21.83
19.69
45.24
29.00
15.68
19.70
17.95

24
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135.
136.
137.
138.
139.
140.
141.
142.
143.
144.
145.
146.
147.
148.
149.
150.
151.
152.
153.
154.
155.
156.
157.
158.
159.
160.
161.
162.
163.
164.
165.
166.
167.
168.
169.
170.
171.
172.
173.
174.
175.
176.
177.
178.
179.
180.

The City Record
Health Educator II ....................................................................
Heating Inspector .......................................................................
Help Desk Analyst.....................................................................
HIV Educator ...............................................................................
House Connection Inspector ...................................................
Housing Inspector.......................................................................
Human Resources Contract Specialist ................................
Human Resources On-the-Job Training Specialist .........
Human Resources Planner ......................................................
Human Resources Special Projects Coordinator.............
Income Tax Tracer ....................................................................
Industrial Hygiene Engineer .................................................
Industrial Nuisance Inspector ................................................
Information Control Analyst ..................................................
Inspector of Weight and Measures .....................................
Instrumentation Technician I ................................................
Instrumentation Technician II ..............................................
Instrument Repairman ..............................................................
Intake Specialist .........................................................................
Job Retraining Assistant .........................................................
Junior Cashier..............................................................................
Junior Chemist.............................................................................
Junior City Planner ...................................................................
Junior Civil Engineer ...............................................................
Junior Clerk ..................................................................................
Junior Draftsman........................................................................
Junior Engineering Aide .........................................................
Lab Coordinator...........................................................................
Laboratory Assistant .................................................................
Laboratory Helper ......................................................................
Landscape Architect...................................................................
Lead Pressman.............................................................................
Life Guard .....................................................................................
Life Guard Captain ....................................................................
Mechanical Engineer .................................................................
Messenger.......................................................................................
Meter Reader ................................................................................
Minority Business Consultant ................................................
Miscellaneous Investigator ......................................................
Monitoring, Auditing and Evaluation Coordinator ........
Network Analyst I......................................................................
Office Machine Operator ..........................................................
On The Job Training Specialist ...........................................
Park and Recreation Planner ................................................
Parking Attendant......................................................................
Parking Meter Collector...........................................................
Parking Meter Serviceman......................................................
Permit Processing Specialist ..................................................
Pharmacist .....................................................................................
Pharmacodependent Rehabilitation Counselor I.............
Pharmacodependent Rehabilitation Counselor II ...........
Photographer ................................................................................
Photographic Laboratory Technician..................................
Photo-Litho Operator..................................................................
Physical Director ........................................................................
Plan Examiner .............................................................................
Play Director ................................................................................
Police Data Specialist ...............................................................
Police Radio Technician ..........................................................
Pressman ........................................................................................
Preventive Health Counselor..................................................
Preventive Health Educator ...................................................
Principal Cashier ........................................................................
Principal Clerk ............................................................................
Print Shop Helper.......................................................................
Private Secretary ........................................................................
Program Analyst .........................................................................
Programmer...................................................................................
Programmer Analyst..................................................................
Property Clerk .............................................................................
Psychiatric Social Worker.......................................................
Psychologist I ..............................................................................
Psychologist II.............................................................................

734

April 27, 2005
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

9.66
14.23
12.02
9.66
12.70
14.60
9.73
10.21
10.74
10.21
10.04
9.73
9.66
9.66
9.66
16.87
18.83
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.89
9.66
9.66
16.82
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
10.00
9.66
9.66
12.82
11.15
9.66
13.65
14.52
9.89
12.71
9.66
9.66
9.66
13.62
9.66
10.74
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.92
16.38
9.66
13.59
9.66
9.66
11.93
10.61
9.66
16.64
9.66
9.73
11.37
12.48
10.74
12.88

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

19.69
20.02
22.50
11.46
16.74
17.82
27.13
23.07
28.66
23.07
15.87
27.13
17.95
18.79
16.37
19.28
21.24
18.98
14.54
19.69
15.08
15.71
17.95
17.95
12.57
15.41
15.71
23.88
17.14
13.54
25.63
19.97
14.35
17.78
27.13
13.54
17.12
30.20
16.54
19.99
31.33
13.18
19.31
25.63
14.54
14.51
15.27
12.18
28.65
13.90
16.42
19.69
17.14
15.71
17.71
23.42
12.41
13.67
18.66
19.32
20.03
13.46
21.10
17.85
13.30
18.83
27.30
24.33
27.30
30.22
19.64
26.12
30.79

April 27, 2005
181.
182.
183.
184.
185.
186.
187.
188.
189.
190.
191.
192.
193.
194.
195.
196.
197.
198.
199.
200.
201.
202.
203.
204.
205.
206.
207.
208.
209.
210.
211.
212.
213.
214.
215.
216.
217.
218.
219.
220.
221.
222.
223.
224.
225.
226.
227.
228.
229.
230.
231.
232.
233.
234.
235.
236.
237.
238.
239.
240.
241.
242.
243.
244.
245.
246.
247.
248.
249.
250.
251.
252.
253.

The City Record

Public Health Nursing Aide ...................................................
Public Health Sanitarian I .....................................................
Public Health Sanitarian II....................................................
Public Health Sanitarian III..................................................
Public Health Sanitarian IV ..................................................
Public Information Officer ......................................................
Quality Assurance Analyst .....................................................
Quality Control Coordinator ...................................................
Radio Dispatcher.........................................................................
Radio Technician ........................................................................
Receptionist ...................................................................................
Records Manager ........................................................................
Recreation Aide ...........................................................................
Recreation Instructor ................................................................
Recreation Instructor I.............................................................
Recreation Instructor II ...........................................................
Recreation Instructor III .........................................................
Recreation Program Supervisor ............................................
Redevelopment Advisor ............................................................
Redevelopment Coordinator ....................................................
Refrigeration Inspector ............................................................
Refugee Outreach Worker.......................................................
Registered Animal Health Technician ...............................
Rehabilitation Advisor ..............................................................
Rehabilitation Inspector ...........................................................
Sanitarian Aide ............................................................................
Second Press Operator ..............................................................
Secretary.........................................................................................
Secretary to Director of Consumer Affairs ......................
Senior Assistant Architect.......................................................
Senior Assistant City Planner ...............................................
Senior Assistant Civil Engineer ...........................................
Senior Assistant Electrical Engineer..................................
Senior Assistant Mechanical Engineer...............................
Senior Assistant Traffic Engineer .......................................
Senior Bacteriologist..................................................................
Senior Cashier ..............................................................................
Senior Chemist .............................................................................
Senior Clerk ..................................................................................
Senior Computer Operator .......................................................
Senior Contract and Monitoring Specialist .......................
Senior Data Conversion Operator .........................................
Senior Development Officer ....................................................
Senior Draftsman ........................................................................
Senior Engineering Draftsman and Photographer ........
Senior Information Control Analyst ....................................
Senior Laboratory Technician................................................
Senior Landscape Architect ....................................................
Senior Site Inspector – Demolition ......................................
Sewer Service Man .....................................................................
Site Inspector................................................................................
Social Worker for Homeless ..................................................
Starter (Golf) ...............................................................................
S.T.D. Clerk ...................................................................................
Stenographer I .............................................................................
Stenographer II............................................................................
Stenographer III..........................................................................
Stock Clerk....................................................................................
Storekeeper ....................................................................................
Street Obstruction Inspector ...................................................
Surveyor..........................................................................................
Tax Auditor I...............................................................................
Tax Auditor II .............................................................................
Technical Specialist ...................................................................
Technical Specifications Writer ............................................
Telecommunications Analyst ..................................................
Telephone Operator ....................................................................
Telephone Supervisor ................................................................
Timekeeper ....................................................................................
Traffic Engineer .........................................................................
Traffic Sign and Marking Technician ...............................
Typist ..............................................................................................
Urban Planning and Development Technician ...............

735

25
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

10.63
12.78
14.35
15.49
9.66
9.66
9.66
16.82
17.33
16.38
9.66
9.84
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
14.26
9.66
9.66
9.66
14.60
11.62
10.00
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
10.29
9.66
11.34
10.80
12.63
9.66
9.66
9.66
10.86
9.73
9.66
14.99
9.66
13.82
9.66
9.66
9.77
10.77
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
10.60
12.41
9.66
9.66
14.53
9.66
9.66
9.66
9.66
13.68
9.92
9.66

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

12.55
19.44
20.96
21.78
26.50
20.71
24.32
23.89
18.66
18.66
13.86
14.53
9.69
14.54
15.49
16.09
17.02
15.82
21.83
24.33
20.02
13.53
14.54
18.83
24.33
14.11
17.68
15.71
25.63
21.83
21.83
21.83
21.83
21.83
21.83
18.83
17.95
20.71
14.74
24.33
25.79
16.38
31.91
17.61
19.69
20.71
16.02
27.13
23.07
17.12
20.71
20.37
12.04
11.63
13.21
14.74
16.37
16.19
18.44
17.14
24.33
16.66
18.42
20.71
21.84
38.83
15.08
15.71
15.71
25.63
15.71
13.68
13.68

26
254.
255.
256.
257.
258.
259.
260.
261.
262.

The City Record
Utility Adjuster............................................................................
Vector Control Assistant ..........................................................
Veteran’s Counselor ...................................................................
Water Hydraulic Repairman ..................................................
Water Meter Repairman ..........................................................
Water Pipe Repairman .............................................................
Water Serviceman.......................................................................
Water System Construction Inspector ................................
Web Content Editor ...................................................................

April 27, 2005
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

10.64
9.66
9.66
14.99
14.99
13.58
9.66
15.67
9.66

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

14.74
13.11
17.83
17.12
17.12
17.12
14.62
21.39
26.44

Section 28. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.

Administrative Officer ..............................................................
Cable Protection Specialist .....................................................
Case Worker Supervisor...........................................................
Chief Air Pollution Inspector ................................................
Chief Caseworker Supervisor .................................................
Chief Clerk ....................................................................................
Chief Photographer ....................................................................
Reserved * moved to Section 14a on 8-11-04 ....................
Chief Telephone Operator........................................................
Cocaine Treatment Supervisor ...............................................
Composing Supervisor ...............................................................
Consumer Protection Supervisor ...........................................
Custodial Worker Supervisor .................................................
Epidemiologist..............................................................................
Personnel Analyst I ...................................................................
Safety Programs Officer I.......................................................
Safety Programs Officer II .....................................................
Secretary to Board of Examiner of Board of
Review (Electrical) ...............................................................
Secretary - Boxing and Wrestling Commission ..............
Superintendent of Maintenance .............................................
Superintendent of Street Cleaning .......................................
Superintendent of Waste Collection ....................................
Supervisor of Income Tax Files ...........................................
Supervisor of Storeroom and Mailing .................................

Minimum
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$22,426.64
$22,050.00
$20,092.80

Maximum
$ 48,000.35
$ 34,916.09
$ 40,978.30
$ 46,377.15
$ 41,623.16
$ 43,079.97
$ 46,377.15

$20,092.80
$22,426.64
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$40,000.00
$21,000.00
$25,000.00
$25,000.00

$ 45,337.31
$ 43,079.97
$ 39,592.55
$ 41,623.16
$ 38,287.94
$75,000.00
$42,815.94
$60,000.00
$42,000.00

$20,092.80
$30,573.46
$23,606.98
$25,967.68
$29,508.73
$20,092.80
$20,092.80

$36,043.06
$32,909.27
$51,844.45
$42,294.71
$51,844.45
$36,043.06
$32,909.27

Section 37. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.

Administrator of Engineering and Planning...................
Airport Chief Engineer.............................................................
Assistant City Comptroller ......................................................
Airport Planning Environmental Officer...........................
Airport Project Director ...........................................................
Air Trade Development Manager .........................................
Assistant Director of Human Resources and
Economic Development .........................................................
Budget Administrator ................................................................
Chief of Personnel Management...........................................
Comptroller-Airports ...................................................................
Data Base Analyst .....................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Building
and Housing..............................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport .............................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Parks, Maintenance
and Properties ..........................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Water ............................................
Deputy Commissioner of Water Pollution Control ........
Environmental Programs Manager ......................................
Executive Commissioner of Public Safety –
Operations ..................................................................................
Executive Commissioner of Public Safety –
Projects, Grants and Technology .....................................
Field Manager ..............................................................................
Fleet Management Data Manager........................................
GIS/IS Coordinator .....................................................................

736

Minimum
$30,214.95
$30,214.95
$41,312.22
$30,214.95
$60,000.00
$30,214.95

Maximum
$101,947.53
$101,947.53
$102,960.00
$ 80,773.81
$124,800.00
$ 94,105.40

$30,214.95
$30,214.95
$30,214.95
$30,214.95
$30,214.95

$101,947.53
$ 94,105.40
$ 94,105.40
$101,947.52
$ 80,773.80

$30,214.95

$ 94,105.40

$30,214.95

$ 94,105.40

$30,214.95
$30,214.95
$30,214.95
$45,000.00

$ 94,105.40
$117,520.00
$ 94,105.40
$ 79,040.00

$36,590.39

$128,960.00

$36,590.39
$35,000.00
$30,000.00
$52,000.00

$128,960.00
$ 53,854.72
$ 60,500.00
$ 85,000.00

April 27, 2005
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.

The City Record

In-Charge Senior Internal Auditor .......................................
Labor Relations Manager ........................................................
Manager of Electric System Operation ..............................
Manager of Human Resources Monitoring
and Evaluation ........................................................................
Manager of Marketing ..............................................................
Manager of Properties ..............................................................
Manager of Public Service Operations ...............................
Manager of Telecommunications ..........................................
Nurse Practitioner.......................................................................
Permit Review Manager ..........................................................
Project Leader/Applications ...................................................
Regulatory Compliance Manager..........................................
Safety Programs Manager.......................................................
Section Chief – Engineering & Construction...................
Software Analyst.........................................................................
Superintendent of Electric Transmission
and Distribution ......................................................................
Supervisor of Computer Operations .....................................
Supervisor Hardware Evaluation .........................................
Veterinarian in Charge of Spay and Neuter Clinic ......

27
$49,500.00
$30,214.95
$30,214.95

$ 76,440.00
$101,947.50
$ 94,105.40

$30,214.95
$30,214.95
$30,214.95
$30,214.95
$30,214.95
$45,000.00
$35,000.00
$30,214.95
$50,000.00
$45,000.00
$50,000.00
$30,214.95

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

94,105.40
94,105.40
94,105.40
94,105.40
94,105.40
83,200.00
59,382.93
80,773.80
88,624.36
79,040.00
90,000.00
80,773.80

$30,214.95
$30,214.95
$30,214.95
$30,214.95

$
$
$
$

80,773.80
80,773.80
80,773.80
80,773.80

Section 40. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.

Application Delivery Services Manager .............................
Customer Support Center Manager ......................................
Database Administrator............................................................
Database Coordinator ................................................................
Information Technology Electronic Data
Processing Auditor .................................................................
Information Technology Security Officer..........................
IT Asset Management Analyst..............................................
IT Asset Management Coordinator ......................................
IT Network and Data Center Operations
Manager ......................................................................................
IT Project Manager I ...............................................................
IT Project Manager II..............................................................
IT Quality Assurance and Control Analyst .....................
IT Telecommunications Analyst I .......................................
IT Telecommunications Analyst II......................................
IT Telecommunications Technician II ...............................
IT Training Analyst..................................................................
IT Training Coordinator ..........................................................
Network Analyst II ....................................................................
PC Technician ..............................................................................
Program Manager .......................................................................
Supervisor Applications Development .................................
Supervisor of Systems and Technical Support ................
Supervisor Quality Assurance ................................................
Supervisor Software Support ..................................................
Web Developer .............................................................................
Web Master ...................................................................................

Minimum
$65,000.00
$65,000.00
$39,937.34
$30,214.00

Maximum
$ 88,400.00
$ 88,400.00
$ 99,469.60
$ 73,493.68

$35,000.00
$30,215.00
$25,000.00
$22,333.00

$
$
$
$

72,800.00
73,206.64
46,800.00
70,274.88

$55,000.00
$20,092.80
$22,333.00
$20,092.80
$30,214.00
$30,214.00
$44,80300.
$38,000.00
$38,000.00
$30,214.00
$25,000.00
$30,214.00
$39,937.34
$55,000.00
$39,937.34
$39,937.34
$30,215.00
$30,215.00

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

87,426.00
55,004.56
72,354.88
55,004.56
65,173.68
80,773.68
66,842.88
57,200.00
67,200.00
81,773.68
45,000.00
75,769.20
78,810.44
78,000.00
78,810.44
78,810.44
75,769.20
90,923.04

Section 3. That the following existing Sections of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003:
Section 8 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance Nos. 605-03, passed June 10,
2003, 1801-03, passed October 13, 2003, and 1814-04, passed October 4, 2004,
Section 28 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 605-03, passed June 10,
2003, Ordinance 1801-03, passed October 13, 2003, Ordinance No. 1501-04, passed August 11, 2004, and Ordinance No.
1814-04, passed October 4, 2004,
Section 37 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 605-03, passed June 10,
2003, and
Section 40 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 605-03, passed June 10,
2003, and Ordinance No. 1814-04, passed October 4, 2004.
are repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

737

The City Record

28

April 27, 2005

Ord. No. 775-05.
By Council Members Lewis and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with the International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers, Local 38; and amending Section 19 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, relating to
compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code, this Council approves the collective
bargaining agreement with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 38, under the terms contained in File No. 775-05-A, for the period from April 1, 2004 through March 31, 2007, and which provides, among
other things, for an increase in the salaries and wages for members of the bargaining unit under the following
schedule:
Effective Date of Increase

Increase
3%

April 1, 2006

In addition to the percentage increase effective April 1, 2006, eligible members of the bargaining unit will receive
a separate payment in the amount of $500.00 on or about May 1, 2005, which amount is not part of the member’s
wage base.
Section 2. That Section 19 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, is amended to read as follows:
Section 19. International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 38. That salaries and compensation in the
following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing
after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Assistant Chief Electrical Inspector ...................................
Code Enforcement Inspector/Electrical I..........................
Code Enforcement Inspector/Electrical II ........................
Code Enforcement Inspector/Electrical III ......................
Electrical Inspector....................................................................

Minimum
$31,747.58
$
14.83
$
15.66
$
16.49
$30,094.45

Maximum
$45,442.08
$
21.84
$
23.08
$
24.32
$43,075.91

Section 3. That Section 19 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 776-05.
By Council Members Lewis and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 10; and amending Section 11 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended
by Ordinance No. 605-03, passed June 10, 2003, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code, this Council approves the collective
bargaining agreement with the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 10, under the terms contained
in File No. 776-05-A, for the period from April 1, 2004 through March 31, 2007, and which provides, among other
things, for an increase in the salaries and wages for members of the bargaining unit under the following schedule:
Effective Date of Increase

Increase
3%

April 1, 2006

In addition to the percentage increase effective April 1, 2006, eligible members of the bargaining unit will receive
a separate payment in the amount of $500.00 on or about May 1, 2005, which amount is not part of the member’s
wage base.
Section 2. That Section 11 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 605-03,
passed June 10, 2003, is amended to read as follows:
Section 11. International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 10. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after
each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Assistant Superintendent of Distribution ..........................
Assistant Superintendent of Sewer Maintenance ...........
Chief Meter Reader....................................................................
Chief Radio Dispatcher-Water ...............................................
Data Conversion Supervisor....................................................
Engineer of Hydraulic Surveys ............................................
Meter Reader Supervisor..........................................................
Sewer Construction Unit Leader ...........................................
Sewer Maintenance Unit Leader ...........................................

738

Minimum
$
14.77
$
14.77
$
13.26
$
15.12
$
11.92
$
18.59
$
14.47
$
15.67
$
14.09

Maximum
$
23.66
$
24.02
$
18.91
$
21.48
$
19.11
$
26.31
$
20.54
$
22.56
$
20.02

April 27, 2005
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.

The City Record

Sewer Maintenance Unit Leader Operator ........................
Supervisor of Radio Service ...................................................
Unit Supervisor ............................................................................
Water Hydraulic Unit Leader................................................
Water Hydraulic Supervisor ...................................................
Water Meter Department Unit Leader ...............................
Water Meter Department Supervisor...................................
Water Pipe Repair Unit Leader ...........................................
Water Pipe Repair Supervisor...............................................

29
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

14.09
15.13
13.29
14.09
15.96
14.09
15.96
14.09
15.97

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

20.98
22.62
21.24
20.02
22.56
20.02
22.56
20.37
22.91

Section 3. That Section 11 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 605-03,
passed June 10, 2003, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 777-05.
By Council Members Lewis and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Municipal Foremen and Laborer’s Union (Chartered: Municipal, County & State Employees’ Union Local 1099, AFL-CIO) (Non-Supervisory); and
amending Section 24 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 605-03, passed
June 10, 2003, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code, this Council approves the collective
bargaining agreement with the Municipal Foremen and Laborer’s Union (Chartered: Municipal, County & State
Employees’ Union Local 1099, AFL-CIO)(Non-Supervisory), under the terms contained in File No. 777-05-A, for the
period from April 1, 2004 through March 31, 2007, and which provides, among other things, for an increase in the
salaries and wages for members of the bargaining unit under the following schedule:
Increase

Effective Date of Increase

3%

April 1, 2006

In addition to the percentage increase effective April 1, 2006, eligible members of the bargaining unit will receive
a separate payment in the amount of $500.00 on or about May 1, 2005, which amount is not part of the member’s
wage base.
Section 2. That Section 24 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 605-03,
passed June 10, 2003, is amended to read as follows:
Section 24. Municipal Foremen and Laborer’s Union (Chartered: Municipal, County & State Employees’ Union
Local 1099, AFL-CIO)(Non-Supervisory). That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be
fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.

Accident and Safety Inspector...............................................
Arborist I .......................................................................................
Assistant Gardener .....................................................................
Cemeteries Maintenance Man I .............................................
Cemeteries Maintenance Man II ...........................................
Cold Patch and Crack Sealing Worker .............................
Crematory and Mausoleum Operator ...................................
Engineering and Construction Inspector...........................
Gardener .........................................................................................
Ground Maintenance Man ........................................................
Lead Program Assistant ..........................................................
Mechanical Handyman ..............................................................
Municipal Service Laborer.......................................................
Practical Nurse ............................................................................
Radio Operator.............................................................................
Real Estate Maintenance Man ..............................................
Sidewalk Inspector .....................................................................
Street Permit Supervisor ..........................................................
Street Sweeper – Waste Collection ......................................
Tire Shredder................................................................................
Transfer Station Attendant .....................................................
Waste Collector ...........................................................................
Waste Collector – Cushman Operator.................................
Watchman ......................................................................................

Minimum
$
17.85
$
15.58
$
12.25
$
13.94
$
21.67
$
15.31
$
15.58
$
16.70
$
15.58
$
13.94
$
15.13
$
14.54
$
13.94
$
13.88
$
15.98
$
14.75
$
15.26
$
13.91
$
13.56
$
14.64
$
18.71
$
13.94
$
14.32
$
11.74

Maximum
$
19.85
$
17.58
$
14.25
$
15.94
$
23.67
$
17.31
$
17.58
$
18.70
$
17.58
$
15.94
$
17.13
$
16.54
$
15.94
$
15.88
$
17.98
$
16.75
$
17.26
$
15.91
$
15.56
$
16.64
$
20.71
$
15.94
$
16.32
$
13.74

Section 3. That Section 24 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 605-03,
passed June 10, 2003, is repealed.

739

The City Record

30

April 27, 2005

Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 778-05.
By Council Members Lewis and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Municipal Foremen and Laborer’s Union (Chartered: Municipal, County & State Employees’ Union Local 1099, AFL-CIO)(Supervisory); and to
supplement Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, by adding new Section 24a relating to compensation for
various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code, this Council approves the collective
bargaining agreement with the Municipal Foremen and Laborer’s Union (Chartered: Municipal, County & State
Employees’ Union Local 1099, AFL-CIO)(Supervisory), under the terms contained in File No. 778-05-A, for the period
from April 1, 2004 through March 31, 2007, and which provides, among other things, for an increase in the salaries
and wages for members of the bargaining unit under the following schedule:
Effective Date of Increase

Increase
3%

April 1, 2006

In addition to the percentage increase effective April 1, 2006, eligible members of the bargaining unit will receive
a separate payment in the amount of $500.00 on or about May 1, 2005, which amount is not part of the member’s
wage base.
Section 2. That Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, is supplemented by adding new Section 24a to read
as follows:
Section 24a. Municipal Foremen and Laborer’s Union (Chartered: Municipal, County & State Employees’ Union
Local 1099, AFL-CIO)(Supervisory) That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed
by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.

Airport Field Foreman .............................................................
Arborist II .....................................................................................
Arborist III....................................................................................
Assistant Manager of Parks and Urban Forestry.........
Assistant Superintendent of Waste Collection ................
Cemetery Foreman .....................................................................
Cemetery Supervisor ..................................................................
Chief Engineering and Construction Inspector ..............
Chief Horticulturist ....................................................................
Cold Patc and Crack Sealing Foreman .............................
District Paving Repair Foreman ..........................................
General Construction Foreman ..............................................
General Shop Foreman .............................................................
Greenskeeper ................................................................................
Ground Maintenance Crew Foreman ...................................
Ground Maintenance Foreman ...............................................
Horticulturist ................................................................................
Horticulturist Maintenance Foreman ..................................
Labor Foreman ............................................................................
Maintenance Foreman ...............................................................
Parking Coordinator ..................................................................
Set-Up Foreman............................................................................
Shop Foreman...............................................................................
Street Cleaning District Foreman ........................................
Street Maintenance Foreman..................................................
Street Maintenance General Foreman.................................
Waste Collection Foreman ......................................................
Waste Collection Foreman I ..................................................
Waste Collection Transfer Foreman ...................................
Watchman Supervisor................................................................

Minimum
$
17.71
$
18.02
$
20.32
$
21.94
$
22.48
$
17.72
$
20.33
$
22.33
$
26.62
$
20.44
$
27.69
$
27.93
$
22.49
$
18.40
$
15.05
$
17.38
$
25.50
$
19.87
$
17.71
$
16.95
$
18.71
$
14.78
$
17.71
$
17.71
$
17.71
$
22.49
$
17.71
$
19.44
$
20.16
$
14.70

Maximum
$
19.71
$
20.02
$
22.32
$
23.94
$
24.48
$
19.72
$
22.33
$
24.33
$
28.62
$
22.44
$
29.69
$
29.93
$
24.49
$
20.40
$
17.05
$
19.72
$
27.50
$
21.87
$
19.71
$
18.95
$
20.71
$
16.78
$
19.71
$
19.71
$
19.71
$
24.49
$
19.71
$
21.44
$
22.16
$
16.70

Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

740

April 27, 2005

The City Record

31

Ord. No. 779-05.
By Council Members Lewis and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Fraternal Order of Police, Ohio
Labor Council, Inc. (Security Officers); and amending Section 14 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003,
relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code, this Council approves the collective
bargaining agreement with the Fraternal Order of Police, Ohio Labor Council, Inc. (Security Officers), under the
terms contained in File No. 779-05-A, for the period from April 1, 2004 through March 31, 2007, and which provides,
among other things, for an increase in the salaries and wages for members of the bargaining unit under the following schedule:
Effective Date of Increase

Increase
3%

April 1, 2006

In addition to the percentage increase effective April 1, 2006, eligible members of the bargaining unit will receive
a separate payment in the amount of $500.00 on or about May 1, 2005, which amount is not part of the member’s
wage base.
Section 2. That Section 14 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, is amended to read as follows:
Section 14. Fraternal Order of Police, Ohio Labor Council, Inc. (Security Officers). That salaries and compensation
in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.

Security Officer............................................................................

Minimum
$
10.80

Maximum
$
18.56

Section 3. That Section 14 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 780-05.
By Council Members Lewis and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Plumbers Inspectors, Local
55; and amending Sections 20 and 31 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code, this Council approves the collective
bargaining agreement with the Plumbers Inspectors, Local 55, under the terms contained in File No. 780-05-A, for
the period from April 1, 2004 through March 31, 2007, and which provides, among other things, for an increase in
the salaries and wages for members of the bargaining unit under the following schedule:
Effective Date of Increase

Increase
3%

April 1, 2006

In addition to the percentage increase effective April 1, 2006, eligible members of the bargaining unit will receive
a separate payment in the amount of $500.00 on or about May 1, 2005, which amount is not part of the member’s
wage base.
Section 2. That Section 20 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance Nos. 180103, passed October 13, 2003 and 1814-04, passed October 4, 2004, is amended to read as follows:
Section 20. Plumbers Inspectors, Local 55. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall
be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Assistant Chief Plumbing Inspector ...................................
Code Enforcement Inspector/Plumbing I ..........................
Code Enforcement Inspector/Plumbing II ........................
Code Enforcement Inspector/Plumbing III ......................
Plumbing Inspector ....................................................................

Minimum
$31,747.58
$
14.83
$
15.66
$
16.49
$30,094.45

Maximum
$45,442.08
$
21.84
$
23.08
$
24.32
$43,075.91

Section 3. That Section 31 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 605-03,
passed June 10, 2003 and 1814-04, passed October 4, 2004, is amended to read as follows:
Section 31. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Airport Maintenance Superintendent ...................................
Assistant Commissioner of Recreation...............................
Assistant Contract Compliance Officer ..............................
Assistant Director of Public Health Nurses ....................
Assistant Income Tax ...............................................................

741

Minimum
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80

Maximum
$ 57,200.00
$ 65,005.39
$ 51,504.26
$ 51,504.26
$ 51,504.26

32

The City Record

6.

Assistant Manager of Audit Control and
Personnel....................................................................................
Assistant Manager of Recreation .........................................
Assistant Superintendent of Pumping ................................
Assistant Superintendent of Purification ..........................
Auditor ............................................................................................
Chief Alcoholism Coordinating Service ..............................
Chief of the Demolition Bureau ...........................................
Chief Plan Examiner ................................................................
City Planner..................................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Recreation-Fiscal Control........
Deputy Project Director ...........................................................
Desktop Publishing Specialist ...............................................
District Supervisor – Environmental Health ...................
Emergency Medical Technician Supervisor ......................
Income Tax Supervisor.............................................................
Office of Professional Standards –
Investigative Auditor ............................................................
Office of Professional Standards – Standards
Research/Analyst ....................................................................
Assistant Plumbing Inspector................................................
Project Program Director of Consumer Affairs .............
Recreation Center Manager ....................................................
Superintendent of Light Equipment Maintenance .........
Superintendent of Vehicle Administrative Services ......
Supervisor Administrative Services-Data
Processing Center ...................................................................
Supervisor of Milk Program...................................................
Supervisor of Vector Control..................................................
Welfare Liaison ...........................................................................

7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.

April 27, 2005
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$30,000.00
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,231.40
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

53,306.92
51,504.26
51,504.26
51,504.26
53,306.92
51,504.26
51,504.26
53,306.92
55,000.00
65,005.39
56,929.60
52,651.21
55,000.00
53,306.92
51,504.26

$20,092.80

$ 51,504.26

$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$32,500.00
$20,092.80
$20,092.80

$
$
$
$
$
$

51,504.26
37,301.04
51,504.26
65,005.39
51,504.26
64,150.91

$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80

$
$
$
$

51,504.26
51,504.26
51,504.26
51,504.26

Section 4. That Section 20 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance Nos. 180103, passed October 13, 2003 and 1814-04, passed October 4, 2004, and Section 31 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed
March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 605-03, passed June 10, 2003 and 1814-04, passed October 4, 2004, are
repealed.
Section 5. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 781-05.
By Council Members Lewis and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent
Association (Chief Dispatcher); and amending Section 14a of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 1505-04, passed August 11, 2004, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code, this Council approves the collective
bargaining agreement with the Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association (Chief Dispatcher), under the terms contained in File No. 781-05-A, for the period from April 1, 2004 through March 31, 2007, and which provides, among
other things, for an increase in the salaries and wages for members of the bargaining unit under the following
schedule:
Increase

Effective Date of Increase

3%

April 1, 2006

In addition to the percentage increase effective April 1, 2006, eligible members of the bargaining unit will receive
a separate payment in the amount of $500.00 on or about May 1, 2005, which amount is not part of the member’s
wage base.
Section 2. That Section 14a of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 150504, passed August 11, 2004, is amended to read as follows:
Section 14a. Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association (Chief Dispatcher). That the salaries and the compensation
in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule
appearing after each classification:

1.

Chief Radio Dispatcher ............................................................

Minimum
$39,788.00

Maximum
$ 43,387.00

Section 3. That Section 14a of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 150504, passed August 11, 2004, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19. Nays 0.

742

April 27, 2005
Ord. No. 785-05.
By
Council
Members
Jackson,
Britt, Lewis, Pierce Scott, Cimperman, Cintron, Zone and Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the 28th RiteAid Marathon and 10K, on May 22, 2005, sponsored by Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the 28 RiteAid
Marathon and 10K, sponsored by
Cleveland Marathon, Inc. on May
22, 2005, Marathon Route: St. Clair
and E. 13th; St. Clair to E. 18th, E.
18th to Lakeside, Lakeside to E.
9th, E. 9th to Erieside, Erieside to
Al Lerner Way, Al Lerner Way to
W. 3rd, W. 3rd to Lakeside, Lakeside to west bound Shoreway, west
bound
Shoreway
to
Edgewater
Drive exit, Edgewater Drive to W.
117th, W. 117th to Lake Avenue,
Lake Avenue to Clifton east bound
Shoreway
entrance,
east
bound
Shoreway to W. 45th exit, W. 45th
to Franklin, Franklin to Fulton,
Fulton
to
Lorain,
Lorain
to
Carnegie, Carnegie to E. 14th, E.
14th to Euclid, (half Marathon
turns on E. 17th to St. Clair, St.
Clair to finish line) Euclid to E.
40th, E. 40th to Chester, Chester to
Euclid Avenue, Euclid to East
Blvd., East Blvd., to MLK, MLK to
N. Marginal, N. Marginal to bike
path, bike path through State park
fishing bridge to E. 55th, E. 55th to
S. Marginal, S. Marginal to W. 3rd
on ramp, W. 3rd ramp to W. 3rd, W.
3rd to Lakeside, Lakeside to W. 9th,
W. 9th to Superior, Superior to W.
3rd, W. 3rd to Lakeside, Lakeside
to E. 18th, E. 18th to St. Clair, St.
Clair to E. 12th finish; 10K Route:
St. Clair & E. 13th; St. Clair to E.
18th, E. 18th to Lakeside, Lakeside
to E. 9th, E. 9th to Erieside,
Erieside to W. 3rd (around stadium), W. 3rd to Lakeside, Lakeside
to west bound Shoreway to ramp,
west bound Shoreway to W. 28th
exit ramp, W. 28th to Detroit,
Detroit too W. 32nd, W. 32nd to
Franklin, Franklin to W. 28th, W.
28th to east bound Shoreway on
ramp,
east
bound
Shoreway
to
Lakeside, Lakeside to E. 18th, E.
18th to St. Clair, St. Clair to E. 12th
finish, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police
and safety forces as may be necessary in order to protect the participants in the event.
Said permit
shall further provide that the City
of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from any and all liability
resulting from the issuance of the
same, to the extent and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency

The City Record
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 786-05.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
13951 Triskett Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Holland Oil
Company,
13951
Triskett
Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
Number 39232320230; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Holland Oil Company, 13951 Triskett Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Num-

743

33
ber 39232320230; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 787-05.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency resolution terminating the employment of Rick Nagin
pursuant to Section 31 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland.
Whereas, Section 31 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland states
“[t]he Council shall choose a Clerk
and such other officers and employees of its own body as are necessary .. [a]ll such officers and
employees chosen by the Council
shall serve during the pleasure
thereof”; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council, pursuant to Charter Section 31, terminates
the
employment
of
Rick
Nagin.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 1.
Those voting yea: Council Members Jackson, Brady, Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Gordon, Johnson, Jones,
Kelley, Lewis, Pierce Scott, Polensek, Reed, Rybka, Sweeney, Westbrook, White and Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Member
Cintron.
Absent: Council Members Conwell
and Dolan.

34
Council Member Cintron left the
meeting.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 127-05.
By
Council
Members
Cintron,
Johnson, Cimperman and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to lease certain property to the Cleveland Rowing Foundation, for a term of twenty-five years, with one option to
renew for an additional twenty-five
years, for the public purpose of providing recreation activities and
amenities.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on City Planning; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property,
and
Recreation,
Finance;
when
amended as follows:
1. In the first whereas clause, line
2, strike “Life” and insert “Lift”.
2. In Section 5, at the end, insert
the following: “The terms of the
lease shall be in accordance with
those described in the executive
summary for this legislation as
amended by the Finance Committee
of this Council and contained in File
No. 127-05-A.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 232-05.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to amend Contract No.
53646 with Otis Associates Limited
Partnership to make modifications
to the contract.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 242-05.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 501.031, relating to construction
of
private
roads;
and
amending Section 501.99, as enacted
by Ordinance No. 63410-A, passed
September 22, 1924, relating to penalties.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committees on City Planning, Legislation;
Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service, Finance;
when amended as follows:

The City Record
1. In Section 1, at new Section
501.031, division (g) at the end, add
the following: “The Permittee shall
be required to make a deposit in an
amount as determined by the Director of Public Service for periodic
inspections of the road construction.
Any amounts not used shall be
refunded to the Permittee.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 375-05.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 13917 Kinsman Road
to Mt. Pleasant Now Development
Corporation or designee.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 376-05.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Kinsman Road and
East 132nd Street to Mt. Pleasant
Now Development Corporation or
designee.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 3, line 4, after “Development,” insert “after consultation
with the Council Member for the
ward in which the property is located,”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 417-05.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of traffic signal and pavement marking equipment, including but not limited to
poles,
signals,
controllers,
sign
blanks, traffic paint, beads, hardware, related incidental supplies
and materials, and labor when necessary, for the Division of Traffic
Engineering, Department of Public
Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage rec-

744

April 27, 2005
ommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 419-05.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic
Development to enter into contract
with ZEN Industries, Inc. to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the purchase of machinery and equipment
for their facility located at 2340
East 69th Street, and all other associated costs necessary to redevelop
the property.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 420-05.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with
Hamilton/Marquette Limited Partnership,
to
provide
development
assistance to partially finance the
acquisition of real property, construction of leasehold improvements,
assistance with architectural, engineering and other consulting fees,
and other renovation costs for the
property located at 5401 Hamilton
Avenue, and all other associated
costs necessary to redevelop the
property.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Relieved
of Committee on City Planning; Passage recommended by Committees
on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 421-05.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Olive Court to
Melanie Shounnette Powell Brazil.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 422-05.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program

April 27, 2005
and located on Crawford Road to
Terrence
Thompkins
and
Veora
Croft-Thompkins.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 424-05.
By Council Member White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 93rd and Harvard to Cleveland Municipal School
District.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 466-05.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of emulsion
and purging solution, for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 469-05.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of rock salt,
for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 1, line 3, strike “one
or two years” and insert “one year”;
and strike lines 11, 12, 13, 14, and 15
and insert “requirements for the
entire term.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 470-05.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials to clean and maintain
scale pits at the Ridge Road Scale
House and Ridge Road Transfer Station, for the Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Department of
Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 467-05.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of magnesium chloride, for the Division of
Streets, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 474-05.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Fenwick Avenue to
Stockyard Redevelopment Organization or designee.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 468-05.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of manhole
risers, for the Division of Streets,
Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 548-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of messenger
services, for the various divisions of
City government.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

745

35
Ord. No. 576-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to enter into contract with
the Cuyahoga County Corrections
Planning Board and the Cuyahoga
County Court of Common Pleas
Adult Probation Department Drug
Testing Laboratory, for drug and
alcohol testing services, for a term
not to exceed eighteen months.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 578-05.
By Council Members Polensek,
Sweeney, Cimperman and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Muldoonís Saloon
and Eatery to encroach into the public right-of-way of Mozina Drive to
construct, install, use, and maintain
a landscape strip.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committee on City Planning; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 585-05.
By Council Members Lewis and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with the International Association of Machinists District Council
54, Local 439; and amending Sections
16 and 30 of Ordinance No. 384-03,
passed March 10, 2003, as amended
by various ordinances, relating to
compensation for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Personnel and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Relieved of Committee on
Employment,
Affirmative
Action
and Training; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 651-05.
By Mayor Campbell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located in the City of Brecksville,
between Oakes Road and Metro
Parks Boulevard to the City of
Brecksville.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Relieved of Committees on
Public Parks, Property and Recreation, City Planning; Passage recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance; when amended as follows:

The City Record

36
1. In Section 1, strike lines 3 to
the end and insert “and determined
that a part of Permanent Parcel No.
603-10-004 is no longer needed for
public use, consisting of the easterly-most seventy-five (75) acres, contiguous to the City of Brecksville’s
recreation center and running between Oakes Road and Metropolitan
Park Boulevard. The Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
shall cause a legal description to be
prepared to describe said part of
Permanent Parcel No. 603-10-004 to
be placed in File No. 651-05-A.”
2. In Section 2, line 4, after “Control,” insert “which shall not be less
than $3,000,000.00”.
3. In Section 3, at the end, insert
the
following:
“The
conveyance
shall include a deed restriction that
the subject property shall be used in
perpetuity for municipal recreation
and green space use only. The City
of Cleveland shall retain an easement in perpetuity for Cleveland’s
existing utility lines and the Division of Water’s tower site and communications antenna.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 1.
Those voting yea: Council Members Jackson, Brady, Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Gordon, Johnson, Jones,
Kelley, Lewis, Pierce Scott, Polensek, Rybka, Sweeney, Westbrook,
White and Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Member
Reed.
Absent: Council Members Conwell
and Dolan.
Not answering roll call: Council
Member Cintron.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Council Member
the meeting.

Cintron

entered

MOTION
By Council Member Britt, seconded by Council Member Lewis
and unanimously carried that the
absence of Council Members Kevin
Conwell and Michael A. Dolan, be
and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
9:05 p.m. to meet on Monday, May 2,
2005 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chambers.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
its final passage at the next council meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL
April 20, 2005
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, April 20, 2005,
at 10:30 a.m. with Director Beasley
presiding.
Present: Directors Beasley, Baker,
Ciaccia, Acting Director McGraw,
Directors Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting
Director Pettus, Directors Ronayne,
Rush, Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor
and Williams.
Absent: Mayor Campbell.
Others: Jim Hardy, Commissioner,
Purchases and Supplies.
Collette Appolito, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 178-05.
By Director Baker.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Kustom Signals, Inc. for the following: speed monitoring trailer for
the Department of Finance, received
on March 10, 2005, under the authority of Ordinance No. 657-03, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland April 14, 2003, which on the
basis of the order quantity would
amount to Eight Thousand Eight
Hundred Ninety-Five and 00/100 Dollars ($8,895.00) (Net-30 Days) is approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Finance is requested to enter into a contract for
the item.
Yeas: Directors Beasley, Baker,
Ciaccia, Acting Director McGraw,
Directors Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting
Director Pettus, Directors Ronayne,
Rush, Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor
and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Campbell.
Resolution No. 179-05.
By Director Ciaccia.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1149-01, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
August 15, 2001, and Resolution No.
137-03, adopted by this Board of Control on March 12, 2003, the City,
through its Director of Utilities,
entered into Contract No. 61208 with
Training Services International, Inc.
(Consultant) for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities to obtain professional services required
for Hazwoper and Asbestos training,
for a total compensation of $203,384.00;
and
Whereas, the City desires to extend the term of Contract No. 61208
within which Consultant may complete the training services to be rendered; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that the
Director Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a first modification
to Contract No. 61208 with Training
Services International, Inc. for the
professional services required for
Hazwoper and Asbestos training by
extending the contract term from 2
years to 3 years without changing
the total compensation under the
Agreement. The modification autho-

746

April 27, 2005
rized shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall include such
additional provision as that Director
deems necessary to benefit and protect the public interest.
Yeas: Directors Beasley, Baker,
Ciaccia, Acting Director McGraw,
Directors Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting
Director Pettus, Directors Ronayne,
Rush, Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor
and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Campbell.
Resolution No. 180-05.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Fabrizi Trucking & Paving Co., Inc. for the public improvement of Franklin Avenue/West 25th
St. Area Sewer Replacement, (Base
Bid All Items including the 10% contingency allowance) for the Division
of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, received on
February 3, 2005, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 841-04,
passed June 14, 2004, upon a unit
basis for the improvement, in the
aggregate amount of One Hundred
Eighty-Eight Thousand Eight Hundred Thirty-Eight and 10/100 Dollars
($188,838.10), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid; and the Director of Public Utilities is hereby authorized to enter
into contract for said improvement
with said bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Fabrizi Trucking and Paving Co.,
Inc. for the above-mentioned public
improvement is hereby approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR
MBE/FBE

WORK

McTech Corporation
MBE
$60,000.00 (31.77%)
Cook Paving
MBE

$15,000.00 (7.94%)

Julian Supply
FBE

$ 2,400.00 (1.27%)

Yeas: Directors Beasley, Baker,
Ciaccia, Acting Director McGraw,
Directors Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting
Director Pettus, Directors Ronayne,
Rush, Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor
and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Campbell.
Resolution No. 181-05.
By Director Mok.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 8-05, passed by the Council of the City of Cleveland on January 31, 2005, the firm of Brand
Insights (“Consultant”) is selected
upon the nomination of the Director
of Port Control from a list of qualified persons or firms determined as
the firm of consultants available to
be employed by contract to supplement the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the
City to provide professional services
for the promotional activities and
marketing for the Department of
Port Control.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract

The City Record

April 27, 2005
with Brand Insights, provided that
the compensation to Brand Insights
for the services authorized shall not
exceed Two Hundred Thousand and
00/100 Dollars ($200,000.00) for a
term of two (2) years which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall contain such
other provisions as the Director of
Law deems necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Directors Beasley, Baker,
Ciaccia, Acting Director McGraw,
Directors Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting
Director Pettus, Directors Ronayne,
Rush, Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor
and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Campbell.
Resolution No. 182-05.
By Director Mok.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 2055-04,
passed by Cleveland City Council on
January 31, 2005, enacted Section
571.88 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio relating to the use
of and rental fee schedule for meeting room space at Burke Lakefront
Airport
and
Cleveland
Hopkins
International Airport; therefore
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that under Section 571.88 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the following fees, as fixed by
the Director of Port Control for use
of and rental of meeting room space
at Burke Lakefront and Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, are
approved:

Location

Event Charges
(Not to Exceed)

CLEVELAND HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
North Baggage Claim Level
Conference Room

$150.00

South Baggage Claim Level
Conference Room

$ 50.00

Concourse A Meeting Room

$750.00

Second Floor Large
Conference Room

$200.00

Second Floor Small
Meeting Rooms

$150.00

BURKE LAKEFRONT AIRPORT
Conference Room
Main Lobby Meeting Room

$150.00
$500.00

Be it further resolved that the
rates fixed above shall remain in
full force and effect for the one year
period from May 1, 2005 through
April 30, 2006.
Yeas: Directors Beasley, Baker,
Ciaccia, Acting Director McGraw,
Directors Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting
Director Pettus, Directors Ronayne,
Rush, Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor
and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Campbell.
Resolution No. 183-05.
By Director Mok.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Cleveland Door Controls, Inc. for
labor and materials necessary to
maintain
and
repair
automatic
doors, for the various divisions of
the Department of Port Control, for

a period of one year beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on the 30th of March, 2005,
under to the authority of Ordinance
No. 2237-04, passed on January 24,
2005, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
Fifty Thousand Six Hundred Six
and 25/100 Dollars ($50,606.25), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Port Control is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for labor
and
materials
necessary,
which
shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of the
contract of the following:
Requisition No. 156666
which shall be certified against
the contract in the sum of Twenty-Five Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($25,000.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for labor and
materials, whether more or less than
the estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas: Directors Beasley, Baker,
Ciaccia, Acting Director McGraw,
Directors Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting
Director Pettus, Directors Ronayne,
Rush, Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor
and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Campbell.
Resolution No. 184-05.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Utility Truck Equipment,
Inc. for an estimated quantity of
cable pulling device rehabilitation,
for the various divisions of City
government, for the period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
February 9, 2005, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1481-04, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on October 11, 2004, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Sixty-Seven Thousand Nine Hundred Sixty-Seven and
00/100 Dollars ($67,967.00) (Net), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Service is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services, which shall
provide for the immediate purchase
as the initial amount of the contract
of the following:
Requisition No. 154086
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of Sixty-Seven
Thousand Nine Hundred Sixty-Seven
and 00/100 Dollars ($67,967.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Directors Beasley, Baker,
Ciaccia, Acting Director McGraw,
Directors Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting
Director Pettus, Directors Ronayne,
Rush, Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor
and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Campbell.

747

37
Resolution No. 185-05.
By Director Ronayne.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 224-01, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on May 21,
2001, and Resolution No. 279-02,
adopted by the Cleveland City Board
of Control on May 8, 2002, the City,
through its Director of Parks, Recreation, and Properties, entered into
City Contract No. 60547 (“Agreement”) with Innovative Foods, Inc.
(“Concessionaire”) to operate concession stands at Gordon Park and
Brookside Park; and
Whereas, the Director of Parks,
Recreation, and Properties desires
that the Agreement be extended for
an additional 60 days while the
Department of Parks, Recreation &
Properties seeks to enter into one or
more concession agreements on the
basis of competitive proposals for
the operation of concession stands
at Gordon Park and Brookside Park
for a term not to exceed three years;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Section
183.04 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Director of
Parks, Recreation, and Properties is
authorized to amend the Agreement
with the Concessionaire to extend it
for an additional 60 days.
Be it further resolved that all
other terms and provisions of City
Contract No. 60547, as previously
amended, not expressly modified
herein shall remain in full force and
effect and that the Director of
Parks, Recreation, and Properties is
hereby authorized to complete and
execute any documents necessary
and appropriate to effect the amendment hereby authorized.
Yeas: Directors Beasley, Baker,
Ciaccia, Acting Director McGraw,
Directors Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting
Director Pettus, Directors Ronayne,
Rush, Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor
and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Campbell.
Resolution No. 186-05.
By Director Ronayne.
Whereas, Resolution No. 104-05,
adopted by this Board on March 9,
2005, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1092-04, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 14, 2004, and amended by Ordinance No. 1503-04, passed August 11,
2004, authorized the Director of
Parks, Recreation, and Properties to
enter into an agreement with Ralph
Tyler Companies, for professional
planning and evaluation services
necessary
for
building
improvements for the rehabilitation of the
Cleveland Harbor Coast Guard Station; and
Whereas, said Resolution No. 10405 states the incorrect director and
department; now, therefore
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that Board of Control Resolution No.
104-05, adopted March 9, 2005, is
amended by replacing the words
“Director of Public Service” with
“Director of Parks, Recreation, and
Properties” in the second paragraph,
Be it further resolved, that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 104-05 not expressly amended
shall remain unchanged and in full
force and effect.

38
Yeas: Directors Beasley, Baker,
Ciaccia, Acting Director McGraw,
Directors Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting
Director Pettus, Directors Ronayne,
Rush, Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor
and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Campbell.
Resolution No. 187-05.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 006-08-023, 016-20042, 016-13-008, 016-13-059, 016-11-080,
016-09-148, 016-11-155, 016-19-133, 01610-009,
016-16-085
and
016-11-159,
located at scattered sites under said
Land Reutilization Program;
Whereas, Ordinance No. 374-05
passed March 14, 2005, authorized
the sale of said parcels for a consideration established by the Board
of Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas,
Stockyard
Redevelopment Organization or designee has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcels; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 374-05 passed March
14, 2005, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Stockyard Redevelopment Organization or designee for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
Nos. 006-08-023, 016-20-042, 016-13-008,
016-13-059, 016-11-080, 016-09-148, 01611-155, 016-19-133, 016-10-009, 016-16085 and 016-11-159, as described in
said Ordinance in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$100.00 each, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than
the fair market value of said parcels
for uses in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Beasley, Baker,
Ciaccia, Acting Director McGraw,
Directors Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting
Director Pettus, Directors Ronayne,
Rush, Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor
and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Campbell.
Resolution No. 188-05.
By Director Ronayne.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 103-22-003, 103-22038, 103-22-049, 103-22-050, 103-22-069,
103-22-077, 103-22-091, 103-22-093, 10322-094, 103-22-095, 103-22-101, 103-22103, 103-22-122, 103-22-125, 103-22-157,
103-22-128, and 103-22-166, located at
East 36th, 37th and 38th Streets
under said Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 2394-03
passed April 4, 2005, authorized the
sale of said parcels for a considera-

The City Record
tion established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. has proposed to the
City to purchase and develop said
parcels; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 2394-03 passed April 4,
2005, by the Cleveland City Council,
the Mayor is hereby authorized to
execute an official deed for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland with
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 103-22-003, 103-22038, 103-22-049, 103-22-050, 103-22-069,
103-22-077, 103-22-091, 103-22-093, 10322-094, 103-22-095, 103-22-101, 103-22103, 103-22-122, 103-22-125, 103-22-157,
103-22-128, 103-22-166, as described in
said Ordinance in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$100.00 each, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than
the fair market value of said parcels
for uses in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Beasley, Baker,
Ciaccia, Acting Director McGraw,
Directors Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting
Director Pettus, Directors Ronayne,
Rush, Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor
and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Campbell.
Resolution No. 186-05.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and.
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 103-22-023, 103-22024, 103-22-025, 103-22-026, 103-22-027,
103-22-028, 103-22-030, 103-22-031, 10322-032, 103-22-033, 103-22-034, 103-22037, 103-22-134 and 103-22-156, located
at East 37th and 38th Streets under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1025-96
passed June 18, 1996, authorized the
sale of said parcels for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. has proposed to the
City to purchase and develop said
parcels; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1025-96 passed June
18, 1996, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 10322-023, 103-22-024, 103-22-025, 103-22026, 103-22-027, 103-22-028, 103-22-030,
103-22-031, 103-22-032, 103-22-033, 10322-034, 103-22-037, 103-22-134 and 10322-156, as described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.

748

April 27, 2005
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$100.00 each, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than
the fair market value of said parcels
for uses in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Beasley, Baker,
Ciaccia, Acting Director McGraw,
Directors Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting
Director Pettus, Directors Ronayne,
Rush, Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor
and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Campbell.
Resolution No. 190-05.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 109-10-121, 109-10128, 109-10-129, 109-10-130, 109-10-131,
109-10-132, 109-10-137, 109-10-138 and
109-10-139, located at East 101st
Street under said Land Reutilization
Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 423-05
passed April 4, 2005, authorized the
sale of said parcels for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than Fair Market Value; and
Whereas, Home Builders Association
of
Greater
Cleveland
or
designee has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop said parcels;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 423-05 passed April 4,
2005, by the Cleveland City Council,
the Mayor is hereby authorized to
execute an official deed for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland with
Home
Builders
Association
of
Greater Cleveland or designee for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 109-10-121, 109-10128, 109-10-129, 109-10-130, 109-10-131,
109-10-132, 109-10-137, 109-10-138 and
109-10-139, as described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$100.00 each, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than
the fair market value of said parcels
for uses in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Beasley, Baker,
Ciaccia, Acting Director McGraw,
Directors Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting
Director Pettus, Directors Ronayne,
Rush, Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor
and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Campbell.
Resolution No. 191-05.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 017-18-027 located at Briggs Road
in Ward 18; and

April 27, 2005
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas,
Jean
Polasko,
abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 18 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is hereby requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Jean Polasko for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 017-18-027 located at
Briggs Road, in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the intent
of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Directors Beasley, Baker,
Ciaccia, Acting Director McGraw,
Directors Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting
Director Pettus, Directors Ronayne,
Rush, Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor
and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Campbell.
Resolution No. 192-05.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 103-22-038 located at Central
Avenue in Ward 5; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc., abutting/adjacent
landowner, has proposed to the City
to purchase and develop said parcel;
and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 5 has consented to the proposed sale;

The City Record

39

2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Burten, Bell,
Carr Development, Inc. for the sale
and development of Permanent Parcel No. 103-22-038 located at Central
Avenue, in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
Fair Market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Directors Beasley, Baker,
Ciaccia, Acting Director McGraw,
Directors Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting
Director Pettus, Directors Ronayne,
Rush, Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor
and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Campbell.
Resolution No. 193-05.
By Director Ronayne.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Great Lakes Construction Company for the Public
improvement of Collinwood Athletic
Complex, for Base Bid Items 1-35, 3856, 58-60, 62-68 and Add Alternate
Items 1.1-1.3 for the Division of
Research, Planning & Development,
Department of Parks, Recreation &
Properties, received on February 2,
2005, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 2243-03, passed on
December 15, 2003 as amended by
Ordinance No. 1670-04, passed on
November 15, 2004, and Ordinance
No. 2365-04, passed on January 24,
2005 upon a unit basis for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of Two Million Nine Hundred Eight Thousand Eight Hundred
Four
and
00/100
Dollars
($2,908,804.00), is hereby affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director of Department of Parks, Recreation & Properties is hereby authorized to enter
into contract for said improvement
with said bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Great Lakes Construction Company
for the aforementioned public improvement hereby is approved:

Ramsay Construction (MBE)$ 91,600.00
3.15%
Comm Steel (MBE)

$ 72,000.00
2.48%

Forest City Erectors

$ 60,000.00
2.06%

Collinwood Shale & Brick $ 55,000.00
1.89%
Western Reserve Interiors

$ 38,500.00
1.32%

Post Painting (FBE)

$ 29,000.00
1.00%

Oglesby Construction

$ 27,000.00
0.93%

Resource International
(FBE)
S & B Flooring (MBE)
Aberdeem Mechanical
(FBE)

$ 20,000.00
0.69%
$ 16,098.00
0.55%
$ 14,800.00
0.51%

Julian Supply (FBE)

$

6,000.00
0.21%

Gratton Bldg. Supplies
(FBE)

$

5,400.00
0.19%

Yeas: Directors Beasley, Baker,
Ciaccia, Acting Director McGraw,
Directors Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting
Director Pettus, Directors Ronayne,
Rush, Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor
and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Campbell.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.

SUBCONTRACTORS

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

G. T. Electric (MBE)

$323,000.00
11.10%

Carron Asphalt Paving

$289,000.00
6.92%

PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.

Granger Trucking (MBE) $125,000.00
4.30%

REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

749

The City Record

40
SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MAY 2, 2005
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 05-74: Appeal of North
Coast Payphones, 4159 Lee Road,
4360 Lee Road — Permit #70
(Ward 1)
North Coast Payphones, Inc. and
Howard Meister, appeal under Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland from an order issued
on March 17, 2005 by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses,
under
the
authority
of
Section
670B.06 of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances, to remove two outdoor
payphones located at 4159 Lee Road
(216) 921-0176 and at 4360 Lee Road
(216) 751-7685 Permit #70, that have
been declared a nuisance by the
Director of Public Safety.
Calendar No. 05-75: Appeal of Sarossy Tibor Hack License Revocation
Sarossy Tibor appeals under Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland from the revocation of
a City of Cleveland Hack License,
issued March 23, 2005 by the Commissioner
of
Assessments
and
Licenses for violating Chapter 443 of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances
on January 9, 2005, February 20,
2005 and various prior altercations.
Calendar No. 05-76: 6712-18 Bayliss
Avenue (Ward 7)
Victor Bondar, owner, appeals to
install a 4' high chain link fence
across the front and along the front
yard setback of a 91' x 87' lot, situated in a Multi-Family District on
the south side of Bayliss Avenue at
6712-18 Bayliss Avenue; the proposed
chain link fence is contrary to the
Fence
Regulations,
that
require
ornamental fence material in the
actual front yards of a Residential
District,
as
stated
in
Section
358.04(c)(1) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-80: Violation Notice,
11802 Kinsman Road (Ward 3)
Arthur and Marjorie Doxey, owners, appeal under the authority of
Section 329.02(d) from a Notice of
Violation issued by the Department
of Building and Housing for failure
to comply with the Sign Regulations
of the City of Cleveland that require
all signs and sign structures to be
maintained in a safe condition and
to not exhibit evidence of significant wear, deterioration or damage,
as stated in Section 350.18 of the
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 05-115: 1070 East 152nd
Street (Ward 10)
The City of Cleveland Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties,
owner, appeals to construct an Outdoor Athletic Complex to be situated on acreage in a General Industry
District, located on the west side of
East 152nd Street, encompassing a
multiple range of addresses from
1034 to 1084 East 152nd Street and
identified as 1070 East 152nd Street;
as proposed, 35 parking spaces are
provided for handicap and officials
and 5 spaces are provided for team

April 27, 2005

buses; contrary to the requirements
for a total seating capacity of
approximately 3,600 persons, or, one
parking space for every six seats,
the total number of parking spaces
required is 600, according to Section
349.04(c) of the Codified Ordinances.

Calendar No. 04-328: Appeal of North
Coast Payphones/ClevePhones, Inc.
postponed to May 23, 2005.
In Executive Session on April 25,
2005, the following appeals heard by
the Board on April 18, 2005 were
adopted and approved.

Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, APRIL 25, 2005
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, April 25,
2005, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 05-65: 1583 East 31st
Street
Mueller Electric, owner, and Mueller Condominiums LLC c/o Tesco,
prospective purchaser, appealed to
change an office and warehouse
building to a use for condominiums
in a Semi-Industry District.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 05-66: 6100 Memphis
Avenue
Anthony DiDonato appealed to
install an 18' high double face, illuminated, freestanding pole sign in
front of a commercial building in a
Local Retail Business District.
The following appeals were Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 05-39: 6104 Storer Avenue
Khalil Ewais appealed to expand
a restaurant to include a drivethrough, carry-out service in a General Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 05-64: 4376 Pearl Road
Thomas Walsh appealed to construct a one-story steel retail store
in a Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 05-13: 269-271 East
156th Street
Doreen Mitchell appealed to install a 6' high board on board
fence along the perimeter of a corner lot in a Local Retail Business
District.
The following
missed:

appeal

was

Dis-

Calendar No. 05-8: Appeal of Midwest
Telecom Payphones, 7901 Cedar
Avenue
Mark Higgins and Midwest Telecom Payphones appealed from an
order to remove two outdoor payphones located at 7901 Cedar Avenue.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 04-330: Appeal of North
Coast Payphones/ClevePhones, Inc.
postponed to May 23, 2005.
Calendar No. 05-2: Appeal of North
Coast Payphones postponed to
May 23, 2005.

750

The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 05-61: 6008 Frontier
Avenue
Dorothy Wittal appealed to erect
a handicap ramp to the front porch
of a one family dwelling in a TwoFamily District.
Calendar No. 05-31: 7007 Quincy
Avenue
Advance Iron, Inc. appealed to
install and maintain 160' of corrugated metal fence and barbed wire
across the frontage of a triangular
shaped corner lot in a General
Industry District.
Calendar No. 04-321: 13528-30 Miles
Avenue
Marvin Butler appealed to establish use as wrecking, storage and
auto repair in a Semi-Industry District; with conditions.
The
nied:

following

appeal

was

De-

Calendar No. 05-60: 3940 West 129th
Street
Carlos
Rodriguez
appealed
to
install a 4' high chain link fence at
the front side yards and across the
front of a one family dwelling in an
A1 One-Family District.
In Executive Session on April 25,
2005, the following appeal heard by
the Board on March 7, 2005 was
adopted and approved.
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 05-29: 13448 Puritas
Avenue
Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing
Authority appealed to erect three
new duplex housing units in an
existing, legal nonconforming, residential development site in an A1
One-Family District; subject to conditions.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
April 20, 2005
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
*

*

*

Docket A-28-05.
RE: Appeal of Al Avery — Ruby’s
Deli Inc., Owner of the Property
located on the premises known as

The City Record

April 27, 2005
7038 Wade Park Avenue from an
ADJUDICATION
ORDER
of
the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, dated January 18,
2005, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-28-05 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for May
4, 2005.
*

*

*

Docket A-31-05.
RE: Appeal of LDV, Inc., Owner of
the Property located on the premises known as 1561 East 105th Street
from an ADJUDICATION ORDER of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, dated March
10, 2005, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance and approve the elevator for
installation, noting the compliance
with the future ASME A17.1.2.7.6.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Saunders and seconded by Mr. Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-32-03.
RE: Appeal of Joseph Maalouf,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 10318 Lorain
Avenue from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, dated March 4, 2005, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until September 1st, 2005
in which to properly shelter the
stairway from snow and ice; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Hosing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-33-05.
RE: Appeal of City of Cleveland —
Department of Parks Recreation, &
Properties, Owner of the Property
located on the premises known as
1070 East 152nd Street from an
ADJUDICATION
ORDER
of
the
Department of Building and Housing, dated March 4, 2005, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance request for the number of toilet fixtures, noting that the anticipated attendance is about 1,300,
additional portable fixtures will be
provided; that there will be two (2)
drinking fountains provided at the
building, one at handicapped height

and one at the regular height; that
these motions do not provide relief
from any ADA requirements; and
that security at the facility will provide adequate notification to anyone
of any kind of alarm situations that
may
occur
through
the
public
address system; and that this resolution may be amended by any
requirements that Fire Prevention
may have before the next meeting.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Saunders
and
seconded
by
Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-35-05.
RE: Appeal of Michael Scordos,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 3285 West
30th Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — FIRE CODE of the Division of Fire, dated March 28, 2005,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
Docket A-35-05 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for May
04, 2005.
*

*

*

*

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Resolutions as presented by the
Secretary for the following Dockets
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
A-137-02—Accurate Plating Company.

751

A-93-03—BMG Management Group.
A-20-05 — Ronald Katz/Ohio Mills
Supply.
A-30-05 — OCDS Limited Partnership.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
April 6, 2005
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Saunders,
Saab. Nays: None. Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE

*

Docket A-37-03.
RE: Appeal of Otis Associates,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 1300 West
9th Street from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, dated March 29, 2005, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance and permit the deck to be constructed of pressured treated lumber
in lieu of fire retard treated lumber,
with the provision that a one-way
door not allowing egress onto the
main roof from the second floor
south west penthouse be provided to
allow access from the deck into a
safe harbor in the event of any kind
of a fire or hazard occurring in the
first penthouse, which is in the middle of the deck; and to require that
the occupancy be posted at fortynine (49), noting that the Appellant
will construct the penthouses of noncombustible framing systems, Type
X drywall, and will sprinkler and
heat the enclosures. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Gallagher.
*

41

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the

The City Record

42
Office
of
Equal
Opportunity
(“OEO”) prior to the date of bid
opening or submission of proposals
or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business
enterprise code or with representations made on these forms may
result in cancellation of the contract
or other civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, MAY 4, 2005
Transfer and Disposal of Bulk
Waste — “Contract B”, for the
Division of Waste Collection and
Disposal, Department of Public
Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 360-05, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
March 28, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY APRIL 29, 2005 AT 10:00
A.M., DIVISION OF WASTE COLLECTION, 5600 CARNEGIE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44103.
Solid Waste Transfer and Disposal
Services — “Contract W”, for the
Division of Waste Collection and
Disposal, Department of Public
Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 361-05, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
March 28, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY APRIL 29, 2005 AT 10:00
A.M., DIVISION OF WASTE COLLECTION, 5600 CARNEGIE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44103.

THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY APRIL 29, 2005 AT 11:00
A.M., DIVISION OF WASTE COLLECTION, 5600 CARNEGIE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44103.
April 20, 2005 and April 27, 2005
FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2005
Ready Mix-Concrete, for the Various
Divisions of City Government,
Department of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 550-05,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, April 11, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING TUESDAY MAY 3, 2005 AT 11:00 A.M.,
CITY
HALL,
CONFERENCE
ROOM 25, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
April 20, 2005 and April 27, 2005
WEDNESDAY, MAY 11, 2005

THURSDAY, MAY 5, 2005

Fence Installation & Repair at East
65th Station, for the Division of
Streets, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1499-04, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, August
11, 2004.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY
MAY 3, 2005 AT 11:00 A.M., CITY
HALL, DIVISION OF STREETS,
2301 EAST 65th, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44104.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.

Direct Haul Contingency Waste Disposal, for the Division of Waste
Collection and Disposal, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 362-05,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, March 28, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY APRIL 29, 2005 AT 10:00
A.M., DIVISION OF WASTE COLLECTION, 5600 CARNEGIE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44103.

Uniforms Clothing, for the Division
of Fire, Department of Public
Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1667-83, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 19, 1984.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY MAY 6, 2005 AT 10:00
A.M., CLEVELAND FIRE HEADQUARTERS,
1645
SUPERIOR
AVENUE, BASEMENT CONFERENCE ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44114.

Transfer and Disposal of Tires —
“Contract T”, for the Division of
Waste Collection and Disposal,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 36405, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, March 28, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY APRIL 29, 2005 AT 10:00
A.M., DIVISION OF WASTE COLLECTION, 5600 CARNEGIE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44103.

Photocopier Groups I, II, & III, for
the Division of Printing and Reproduction, Department of Finance,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
319-04, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, May 3, 2004.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING, THURSDAY,
MAY 5, 2005 AT 9:00 A.M., DIVISION PRINTING, 1735 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.

April 20, 2005 and April 27, 2005

April 20, 2005 and April 27, 2005

April 27, 2005
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, FRIDAY, MAY 6, 2005 AT 11:00 A.M.,
PHOTO LAB 7TH FLOOR, 1300
ONTARIO
STREET,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44113.
Vacuum Cleaners and Replacement
Vacuum Cleaner Bags, for the
Division of Environment, Department of Health, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 229-05, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, March 7, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MAY 6, 2005 AT 10:00 A.M.,
DIVISION
OF
ENVIRONMENT,
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, 1925
ST. CLAIR AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Property Insurance for the Cleveland Browns Stadium, for the Division of Convention Center, Department of Parks, Recreation & Properties, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 227-05, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, March 21,
2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 5, 2005 AT 10:00
A.M., THE CLEVELAND BROWNS
STADIUM,
LOCATED
DOWNTOWN CLEVELAND, SERVICE
ENTRANCE OFF WEST 3RD.
April 27, 2005 and May 4, 2005
FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2005
Fire Hydrants and Hydrants Parts,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 163092, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, September 21,
1992.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 5, 2005 AT 10:30
A.M., DIVISION OF WATER —
DISTRIBUTION
&
MAINTENANCE, PIPE REPAIR CONFERENCE ROOM, 4600 HARVARD
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44105.
April 27, 2005 and May 4, 2005
FRIDAY, MAY 27, 2005
Quicklime,
for
the
Division
of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1630-92, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, September 21, 1992.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MAY 6, 2005 AT 1:00 P.M.,
CARL B. STOKES, PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.

FRIDAY, MAY 6, 2005
April 27, 2005 and May 4, 2005
Disposal of Construction and Demolition Debris Contract “C & D”, for
the Division of Waste Collection
and Disposal, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 363-05, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
March 28, 2005.

THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2005
Photo Lab Supplies, for the Division
of Police, Department of Public
Safety, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 783-04, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, July 14, 2004.

752

Detroit Avenue Resurfacing, Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of Public
Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 701-05 pending.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY
DOLLARS
($50.00)
IN

April 27, 2005
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2005 AT 10:00 A.M.,
ROOM 518, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
April 27, 2005 and May 4, 2005
FRIDAY, JUNE 3, 2005
Refurbishment and Repair of Water
Pumps Including Electric Motor,
Control and Appurtenances, Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1473-04, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
October 25, 2004.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
WEDNESDAY, MAY 11, 2005 AT 1:00 P.M.,
CARL B. STOKES PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.
April 27, 2005 and May 4, 2005

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 729-05.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
3224 West 73rd Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Hanah Shihadeh, 3224 West 73rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number
8087286; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

The City Record
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Hanah Shihadeh,
3224 West 73rd Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44102,
Permanent
Number
8087286; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 18, 2005.
Effective April 23, 2005.

Res. No. 740-05.
By Council Members White, Reed,
Pierce Scott, Sweeney, Brady, Westbrook, Polensek, Zone, Cimperman
and Conwell.
An emergency resolution expressing this Council’s appreciation of
the Cleveland Realtist Association’s
dedication and service to Cleveland
residents and encouraging the Departments of Community Development and Economic Development to
partner with the Cleveland Realtist
Association in efforts to promote
homeownership in the City.
Whereas, the Cleveland Realtist
Association, a member of the Ohio
Realtist Association, works with
both buyers and sellers of property;
and
Whereas, the Cleveland Realtist
Association’s dedication and service
to Cleveland residents is appreciated; and
Whereas, the Cleveland Realtist
Association is a partner in rehabilitating neighborhoods; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council is
appreciative of the Cleveland Realtist Association’s dedication and service to Cleveland residents and
encourages the Departments of Community Development and Economic
Development to partner with the
Cleveland Realtist Association in
efforts to promote homeownership in
the City.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is requested to transmit a copy

753

43
of this resolution to Myldred Boston
Howell, Cleveland Realtist Association President.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 18, 2005.
Effective April 23, 2005.

Ord. No. 2106-04.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into one or more contracts
with C.C.G. Systems, Inc. for professional services necessary to provide
software maintenance for the Fleet
Management Information System.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with
C.C.G. Systems, Inc. for professional
services necessary to provide software maintenance for the Fleet
Management Information System for
a period of one or two years, for the
Department of Public Service. The
contracts or contracts shall be paid
from Fund No. 11 SF 006, Request
No. 153953. The Director of Public
Service is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with a term
of two years instead of one year
when there is a financial advantage
to the City. For purposes of this
ordinance, a financial advantage
shall be determined by the Director
of Public Service by comparing the
proposals received for both terms.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective April 23, 2005.

Ord. No. 2294-04.
By Council Members Coats, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to apply for and accept a Water Supply Revolving Loan Account loan to
provide funding for the Baldwin
Rapid Mix/Flocculation/Sedimentation Project; determining the method
of making the public improvement
of constructing and installing the
improvements; and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement.

The City Record

44
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
apply and accept a Water Supply
Revolving Loan Account (“WSRLA”)
loan in the approximate amount of
$33,000,000 to provide funding for
the Baldwin Rapid Mix/Flocculation/Sedimentation Project (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into a loan agreement with
the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency and the Ohio Water Development Authority for a WSRLA
loan, which loan agreement shall be
substantially in the same form as in
File No. 2294-04-A, and shall contain
additional terms that are acceptable
to the Director of Law to protect the
public interest.
The Director of
Public Utilities is further authorized
to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive the
funds under the WSRLA Agreement;
and appropriate the loan funds for
the purposes as set forth in the
WSRLA Agreement.
Section 3. That on execution of the
WSRLA Agreement, the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
repay the loan funds to the WSRLA
in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the WSRLA Agreement, from the operating revenues
of the Division of Water.
Section 4. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
constructing
and
installing
improvements for the Baldwin Rapid
Mix/Flocculation/Sedimentation Project, including but not limited to,
constructing new raw water piping,
rapid mix vault, rapid mixers, flocculation basins, flocculators and
venturi flow meters, constructing
structural additions; rehabilitating
sedimentation basins; constructing
architectural and selective rehabilitation of gatehouses; constructing
modifications and repairs to existing
passageways;
abating
hazardous materials; decommissioning
and selective demolition of a chemical building; installing electrical
feeders; constructing substation and
miscellaneous site work; and constructing
HVAC,
electrical,
and
plumbing
improvements,
for
the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest respon-

sible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding for a gross price for
the improvement.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders after competitive
bidding for a gross price for the
improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct
component
part
of
the
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a gross price.
On request of the director the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule of unit prices, including profit
and overhead, for all items constituting units of the improvement.
Section 6. That all public improvement contracts entered into under
this ordinance shall contain the
MBE, FBE, and workforce goals in
effect at the time the contracts were
bid.
Section 7. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 52 SF 229, and
form the fund or subfunds which are
credited the loan proceeds received
as authorized by this ordinance,
Request No. 148998.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective April 23, 2005.

Ord. No. 2295-04.
By Council Members Polensek,
Coats, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
and installing indoor and outdoor
improvements to the Nottingham
Water Works Facility; and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

April 27, 2005
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
constructing and installing indoor
and outdoor improvements to the
Nottingham Water Works Facility,
including but not limited to, making
architectural
improvements;
renovating the Administration Building
to add new office and staff areas;
constructing a new plant operator
laboratory; renovating the existing
chemistry lab; upgrading HVAC,
electric, and plumbing; expanding
the visitor’s parking area; and renovating walkways to conform with
ADA requirements, for the Division
of Water, Department of Public Utilities, by one or more contracts duly
let to the lowest responsible bidder
or bidders after competitive bidding
for a gross price for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders after competitive
bidding for a gross price for the
improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct component part of the
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of
a separate contract for a gross
price. On request of the director the
contractor shall furnish a correct
schedule of unit prices, including
profit and overhead, for all items
constituting units of the improvement.
Section 3. That all public improvement contracts entered into under
this ordinance shall contain the
MBE, FBE, and workforce goals in
effect at the time the contracts were
bid.
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 52 SF 229,
Request No. 148996.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective April 23, 2005.

Ord. No. 133-05.
By Council Member Rybka.
An ordinance changing the zoning of a parcel of land on the north side of Hinde Avenue from a Two Family
Residential District, a ‘B’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height District to a General Retail Business District, a ‘C’ Area
District and a ‘2’ Height District (Map Change No. 2146 Sheet No. 6).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Commencing in the centerline of Hinde Avenue, S.E. (40 feet wide) at its intersection with the Northeasterly
line of Broadway, S.E. (60 feet wide);
Thence Northeasterly along said centerline 110 feet to a point therein and the principle place of beginning of
the following described parcel;
Thence Northwesterly and parallel to the line of Broadway S.E. 60 feet to a point;
Thence Northeasterly and parallel to the line of Hinde Avenue S.E. 10 feet to a point;
Thence Northwesterly and parallel to the line of Broadway S.E. 40 feet to a point;

754

April 27, 2005

The City Record

45

Thence Northeasterly and parallel to the line of Hinde Avenue S.E. 40 feet to the Southwesterly line of Sublot
No. 30 in Thomas Hinde’s Subdivision of a part of Original Newburgh Township Lot No. 321 as shown on the
recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps, Page 31 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Southeasterly along said Southwesterly line and its Southeasterly prolongation 100 feet to the centerline of Hinde Avenue S.E.;
Thence Southwesterly along the centerline of Hinde Avenue S.E. 50 feet to the principle place of beginning.
and as outlined and shaded on the attached map is changed to a General Retail Business District, a ‘C’ Area
District and a ‘2’ Height District
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2146, Sheet No. 6, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective May 28, 2005.

755

46
Ord. No. 240-05.
By Council Member O’Malley.
An emergency ordinance designating William Cullen Bryant Elementary School as a Cleveland
Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate William Cullen Bryant Elementary School as a
landmark; and
Whereas, a public hearing under
division (b)(2) of Section 161.04 was
held on January 13, 2005 to discuss
the proposed designation of William
Cullen Bryant Elementary School as
a landmark; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of William
Cullen Bryant Elementary School as
a landmark and has set forth certain findings of fact constituting the
basis for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That William Cullen
Bryant Elementary School, whose
street address in the City of Cleveland is 3121 Oak Park Avenue, also
known as Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Numbers 01117-053 and 011-17-054, and the land
embracing the site thereof, which in
its entirety is a property having special character or special historical
or aesthetic value as part of the
development, heritage, or cultural
characteristics of the City, State, or
the United States, is designated a
landmark under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective April 23, 2005.

Ord. No. 241-05.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency ordinance designating The Lorain Medical Building
as a Cleveland landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate The Lorain
Medical Building as a landmark;
and
Whereas, a public hearing under
division (b)(2) of Section 161.04 was
held on June 24, 2004 to discuss the
proposed designation of The Lorain
Medical Building as a landmark;
and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended
designation
of
The
Lorain Medical Building as a landmark and has set forth certain find-

The City Record
ings of fact constituting the basis
for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That The Lorain Medical Building whose street address
in the City of Cleveland is 11420
Lorain Avenue, N.W., also known as
Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Number 005-09-031, and
the land embracing the site thereof,
which in its entirety is a property
having special character or special
historical or aesthetic value as part
of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City,
State, or the United States, is designated a landmark under Chapter 161
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective April 23, 2005.

Ord. No. 265-05.
By Mayor Campbell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into an agreement with Holland &
Knight LLP for Washington lobbying services for the City of Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
an
agreement
with
Holland
&
Knight LLP for Washington lobbying services for the City of Cleveland, for the approximate sum of
$120,000, and a period not to exceed
one year, payable from Fund No. 01999800-632000, Request No. 146221.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective April 23, 2005.

Ord. No. 266-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing payment of membership dues of
the City of Cleveland in various professional organizations.

756

April 27, 2005
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to cause payment of 2005 membership dues of
the City of Cleveland to be made to
the Ohio Municipal League, NOACA,
Mayors and Managers Association,
U.S. Conference of Mayors, National
League of Cities, Downtown Development Corp., Greater Cleveland
Partnership, and the International
Trade Alliance. The membership
dues for the Ohio Municipal League
will include forty-five subscriptions
to Cities and Village Magazine.
Section 2. That the payment for
the dues and subscriptions shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 01-999800-623100,
01-999800-623200, 01-999800-623300, 01999800-623700,
01-999800-623800,
01999800-624600, 01-999800-624700, and
01-999800-624800, Request No. 146223.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective April 23, 2005.

Ord. No. 294-05.
By Council Member Polensek.
An
ordinance
establishing
the
Waterloo Community Entertainment
District (CED) (Map Change No.
2147, Sheet No. 7).
Whereas, Northeast Shores Development Corporation located at 317
East 156th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44110, has submitted a written request dated February 3rd, 2005, to
the Mayor’s Office for designation of
the Waterloo Community Entertainment District in accordance with the
procedures outlined in Chapter 699A
of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, such request is accompanied by a map identifying the boundaries of the proposed District; and
Whereas, the City Planning Commission has determined that the proposed District meets the criteria for
designation contained in Chapter
699A of the Codified Ordinances of
the City of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Waterloo Community Entertainment District is
hereby established and includes the
areas shown on the map in File No.
294-05-A.
Section 2. That the designation of
the area described in Section 1 hereof as the Waterloo Community
Entertainment District shall be on
file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of
the City Planning Commission by
the appropriate person designated
for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective May 28, 2005.

April 27, 2005
Ord. No. 377-05.
By Council Member Dolan.
An emergency ordinance designating John Marshall High School
as a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate John Marshall
High School as a landmark; and
Whereas, a public hearing under
division (b)(2) of Section 161.04 was
held on April 22, 2004 to discuss the
proposed designation of John Marshall High School as a landmark;
and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of John Marshall High School as a landmark
and has set forth certain findings of
fact constituting the basis for its
decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That John Marshall
High School, whose street address in
the City of Cleveland is 3952 W.
140th Street, S. W., also known as
Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Number 022-26-007, and
the land embracing the site thereof,
which in its entirety is a property
having special character or special
historical or aesthetic value as part
of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City,
State, or the United States, is designated a landmark under Chapter 161
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective April 23, 2005.

Ord. No. 413-05.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of deicing
chemicals, for the various divisions
of the Department of Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to make one or
more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for a period of
one or two years of the necessary
items of deicing chemicals, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis

The City Record
for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term. The
Director of Port Control is authorized
to enter into one or more contracts
with a term of two years instead of
one year when there is a financial
advantage to the City. For purposes
of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined by the
Director of Port Control by comparing the bids received for both terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 129216)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Port Control may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective April 23, 2005.

Ord. No. 414-05.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the procurement by one or more
requirement contracts of the rental
of snow removal equipment and
heavy-duty equipment with operators for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to make one or
more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for a period of
one or two years of the necessary
items of the rental of snow removal
equipment and heavy-duty equipment
with operators in the approximate
amount as procured during the preceding term, to be procured by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the various

757

47
divisions of the Department of Port
Control. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the items
as the Board of Control determines.
Alternate bids for a period less than
two years may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term. The Director of Port Control is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with a term of two years
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Port Control by
comparing the bids received for both
terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against
the
proper
appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
procurement, which procurement, together with all later procurements,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the
Director of Finance. (RL 129215)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective April 23, 2005.

Ord. No. 415-05.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to maintain or
replace exterior landscaping and
other site landscaping for the various divisions of the Department of
Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to make one or
more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for a one or two
year period of the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
maintain or replace exterior landscaping and other site landscaping,
in the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the for the various divisions
of the Department of Port Control.
Bids shall be taken in a manner that
permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the

48
requirements for the entire term. The
Director of Port Control is authorized
to enter into one or more contracts
with a term of two years instead of
one year when there is a financial
advantage to the City. For purposes
of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined by the
Director of Port Control by comparing the bids received for both terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 129211)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made
through
cooperative
agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Port Control may sign all
documents with the State of Ohio or
any of its political subdivisions that
are necessary to make the purchases,
and may enter into one or more contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective April 23, 2005.

Ord. No. 463-05.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of bunker
gear suits, for the Department of
Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to make one or
more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for a period of
one or two years of the necessary
items of bunker gear suits, including
but not limited to proximity pants,
proximity coats, hoods, helmets, suspenders, and boots, in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding term, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Department of Port Control. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than one year may
be taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term. The
Director of Port Control is authorized
to enter into one or more contracts

The City Record
with a term of two years instead of
one year when there is a financial
advantage to the City. For purposes
of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined by the
Director of Port Control by comparing the bids received for both terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 129217)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective April 23, 2005.

Ord. No. 473-05.
By Council Members Westbrook,
White,
Gordon,
Cimperman
and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase properties
for future redevelopment known as
Third Project Apartments at 9830
Denison Avenue and Aftercare Resource Center, located at 9216 Miles
Park Avenue for the Department of
Community Development; authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to convey the properties to Emerald Development & Economic Network, Inc., also known as
EDEN, Inc.; and authorizing an
Agreement between the City and the
Redeveloper.
Whereas, the Director of Community Development has requested the
purchase of properties from the
Department of Housing and Urban
Development (“HUD”) known as
Third Project Apartments at 9830
Denison Avenue and Aftercare Resource Center, located at 9216 Miles
Park
Avenue
(collectively,
the
“Properties”) for future redevelopment to Emerald Development &
Economic Network, Inc., also known
as EDEN, Inc. (the “Redeveloper”)
for the public purpose of future
redevelopment of the Properties; and
Whereas, HUD is willing to sell
the properties through a negotiated
sale, rather than an auction, but
under current federal law, HUD may
only sell the properties through a
negotiated sale to a local government; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland is
willing to acquire the Properties, at
no cost to the City, and immediately convey them to the Redeveloper
for future redevelopment; and
Whereas, the Redeveloper will
remit the negotiated sale price for
the Properties directly to HUD; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the

758

April 27, 2005
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
purchase the following described
Properties for future redevelopment:
Legal Description
017-01-049
9830-38 Denison Avenue
Parcel No. 1
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
21 in the Anna L. Weitz Subdivision
of a Part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 14, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 23 of
Maps, Page 21 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 38.59 feet front
on the Northerly side of Denison
Avenue and extending back 100 feet
on the Westerly Line, which is also
the Easterly side of West 99th
Street, 112.08 feet on the Easterly
Line, and having a rear line of 36.62
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Parcel No. 2
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
22 in the Anna L. Weitz Subdivision
of a Part of the Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 14, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 23 of
Maps, Page 21 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 38.57 feet on the
Northerly side of Denison Avenue
and extending back 112.08 feet on
the Westerly Line, 124.16 feet on the
Easterly Line, and having a rear
line of 36.62 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Parcel No. 3
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
24 in the Anna L. Weitz Subdivision
of a part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 14, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 23 of
Maps, Page 21 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 38.00 feet front
on the Easterly side of West 99th
Street and extending back between
parallel lines 109.88 feet, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
134-08-012
9216 Miles Park Avenue
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Parts of
Sublot Nos. 61 and 62 in Newburgh
Village Allotment of a Part of Original 100 Acre Lot No. 464, as recorded in Volume 2, on Page 20 of Cuyahoga
County
Map
Records
and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the Southerly line of Miles Park Avenue distant
42.00 feet Westerly therein from its
point of intersection with the Westerly line of East 93rd Street (60 feet
wide); thence Westerly about 82.33
feet along said Southerly line of
Miles Park Avenue to the Northwesterly corner of said Sublot to the
Northwesterly corner of said Sublot
No 62: thence Southerly 140.00 feet
along the Westerly line of said
Sublot No. 62 to a point; thence Easterly 38.63 feet parallel with said
Southerly line of Miles Park Avenue, S. E. to a point; thence Northerly 49.40 feet along the center line of
an 8 inch brick wall parallel with

April 27, 2005
said Westerly line of East 93rd
Street to a point; thence Easterly
18.70 feet parallel with the Southerly line of Miles Park Avenue to a
point; thence Northerly 22.60 feet
parallel with said Westerly line of
East 93rd Street to a point; thence
Easterly 25.00 feet parallel with said
Southerly line of Miles Park Avenue
to a point; thence Northerly 98.00
feet parallel with said Westerly line
of East 93rd Street to the place of
beginning according to Survey by
Robert H. Krause, Registered Ohio
Surveyor No. 2885, February 23, 1948,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to execute on behalf of the
City of Cleveland all necessary documents to acquire and to convey the
property and to employ and pay all
fees for title companies, surveys,
escrows, appraisers, environmental
audits, and all other costs necessary
for the acquisition of the Properties.
Section 3. That the consideration
to be paid for the Properties shall
be borne entirely by the Developer
and shall be at no cost to the City.
Section 4. That this Council finds
that the conveyances to the Redeveloper constitutes a public use of
the Properties for the purposes of
redevelopment.
Section 5. That at the direction of
the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to convey the Properties
previously described in this ordinance to the Redeveloper, for a
price of one dollar ($1.00) and other
valuable consideration determined
as fair market value, taking into
account all restrictions, reversionary
interests and similar encumbrances
placed by the City of Cleveland in
the deeds of conveyance.
Section 6. That the conveyances
shall be made by official deeds prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deeds
shall contain necessary provisions,
including
restrictive
reversionary
interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control or Director of Law,
which shall protect the parties as
their respective interests require
and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection of any
advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 7. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an Agreement
with the Developer which shall
include the terms and conditions of
the transaction authorized by this
ordinance.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective April 23, 2005.

Ord. No. 549-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of moving services, for the various divisions of
City government.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one year of the necessary items of moving services, in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the various divisions
of City government. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 118732)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective April 23, 2005.

Ord. No. 551-05.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of telecommunications network services, equipment, peripheral ancillary devices,
and maintenance, for the Division of
Information Technology and Services, Department of Finance, for a
period of one year with two options
to renew for additional one-year
terms; and to extend Contract Nos.
61149, 61150, 61151 and 61152 with
SBC, through its appropriate divisions, for telecommunication network services, equipment, peripheral ancillary devices, and maintenance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for

759

49
a one year period of the necessary
items of telecommunications network services, equipment, peripheral ancillary devices, and maintenance, in the approximate amount
as purchased during the preceding
term, with two (2) options exercisable by the Director of Finance, to
renew for an additional one-year
consecutive terms, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis for
the Division of Information Technology and Services, Department of
Finance. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to extend Contract Nos. 61149, 61150, 61151, and
61152 with SBC, through its appropriate divisions, under the same
terms and conditions, until the time
the City enters into new contracts
for telecommunication network services, equipment, peripheral ancillary devices, and maintenance under
Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 3. That the costs of the
contract or contracts or extensions
authorized by this ordinance shall
not exceed $3,700,000 annually and
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation
accounts
and
the
Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 141930)
Section 4. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Finance may sign all
documents with the State of Ohio or
any of its political subdivisions that
are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or more
contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 5. That the Director of
Finance shall report to this Council
annually on the contracts or extensions entered into under the authority of this ordinance, and on the
overall progress of implementation
of the City’s IT strategic priorities.
Section 6. That strategic priorities
adopted by the City of Cleveland IT
Strategic Council that concern the
procurement of equipment or services authorized to be purchased by
this ordinance shall be provided by
the Director of Finance to this Council for placement in legislative File
No. 551-05-A.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective April 23, 2005.

The City Record

50

April 27, 2005

Ord. No. 592-05.
By Council Member Brady.
An ordinance to change the zoning of parcels on the west side of West 117th Street between Western Avenue
and Interstate 90 from Semi-Industry and One Family to General Retail Business and a portion of that area from
a One-Family to General Industry (Map Change No. 2149, Sheet 2).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of W. 117th Street (80 feet wide) at its intersection with the Easterly prolongation
of the Northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Ida Handy by Certificate of Transfer dated February 21st,
1997 and recorded in Volume 97-1483, Page 38 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Interstate 90;
Thence Southwesterly along the centerline of Interstate 90 to its intersection with the centerline of W. 121st
Street (50 feet wide);
Thence Easterly along said Northerly line to its intersection with the Northerly prolongation of the Westerly
line of a parcel conveyed to Ida Handy by Certificate of Transfer dated February 21, 1997 and recorded in Volume 97-1483, Page 38 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Southerly to its intersection with the Northerly line of said parcel as conveyed to Ida Handy as aforesaid;
Thence Easterly along said Northerly line to the place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a General Retail Business District.
Section 2. That the Use District of land bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of W. 117th Street (80 feet wide) at its intersection with the Easterly prolongation
of the Northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Ida Handy by Certificate of Transfer dated February 21st,
1997 and recorded in Volume 97-1483, Page 38 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Interstate 90;
Thence Southwesterly along the centerline of Interstate 90 to its intersection with the centerline of W. 121st
Street (50 feet wide);
Thence Northerly along the centerline of W. 121st Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of
the Northerly line of a parcel conveyed to Ida Handy by Certificate of Transfer dated February 21st, 1997 and
recorded in Volume 97-1483, Page 42 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Easterly along said Northerly line and its Easterly prolongation, to its intersection with the Northerly
prolongation of the Westerly line of West 118th Place (14 feet wide);
Thence Southerly along said prolongation to its intersection with the Northerly line of said parcel conveyed to
Ida Handy by Certificate of Transfer dated February 21st, 1997 and recorded in Volume 97-1483, Page 38 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Easterly along said Northerly line to the place of beginning
and as defined on the attached map as the “Area to be Rezoned General Industry” is changed to General Industry.
Section 3. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2149, Sheet No. 2 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person
designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 4. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective May 28, 2005.

760

April 27, 2005
Ord. No. 719-05.
By Council Members Brady and
Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance to change
the name of ball diamond number
one at Thrush Park to Ralph J.
Lukich Ball Diamond.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That ball diamond number one at Thrush Park be named
Ralph J. Lukich Ball Diamond, and
that the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties is authorized
and directed to take the necessary
action to affect said name change
and to post the proper signs at said
ball diamond.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective April 23, 2005.

Ord. No. 726-05.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development
to
enter
into
an
agreement with Northeast Neighborhood Development Corporation
to promote neighborhood stability
and sustainability through the use
of Ward 10 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Northeast Neighborhood Development Corporation for specific services
including
monitoring
and
tracking complaints, providing referrals to citizens that may be seeking assistance from city and county
agencies.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $33,500 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

The City Record
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective April 23, 2005.

Ord. No. 727-05.
By Council Members Britt, Cimperman and Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Cleveland Public Theatre
for offering opportunities for youth
to grow in areas of academics, life
skills, and job skills through the use
of Wards 6, 13, 17 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Cleveland Public Theatre for
offering opportunities for youth to
grow in areas of academics, life
skills, and job skills.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $17,500 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective April 23, 2005.

Ord. No. 728-05.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Cleveland Zoological Society to
stretch a banner at West 25th Street
and the Wildlife Way intersection
for the period from June 20, 2005 to
July 20, 2005, inclusive, publicizing
the Huntington Bank Twilight at
the Zoo.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the

761

51
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the Cleveland Zoological Society to stretch a banner
at West 25th Street and the Wildlife
Way intersection for the period from
June 20, 2005 to July 20, 2005, inclusive, publicizing the Huntington
Bank Twilight at the Zoo. Said banner shall be approved by the Director of Public Service, in consultation
with the Director of Public Safety,
as to type, method of affixing and
location so as not to interfere with
any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or
ordinance. The permission of the
owner of any pole from which a banner will be hung must be obtained
prior to issuance of the permit. No
commercial
advertising
shall
be
printed or permitted on said banner
and said banner shall be removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 18, 2005.
Effective April 23, 2005.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, April 25, 2005
11:00 a.m.
Public Service Committee: Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Jones, Vice Chair;
Polensek, White, Kelley, Zone, Cimperman, Brady. Authorized Absence:
Johnson.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Jackson, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady,
Britt,
Coats,
Cimperman,
Reed,
Pierce
Scott,
Westbrook,
White, Gordon. Pro-tem: Zone.
Tuesday, April 26, 2005
10:00 a.m.
Community
and
Economic
Development Committee: Present: Gordon, Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair;
Coats, Lewis, Zone, Cintron, Jones.
Authorized Absence: Reed, Pierce
Scott.
Wednesday, April 27, 2005
9:30 a.m.
Aviation and Transportation Committee: Present: Westbrook, Chair;
Sweeney, Vice Chair; Britt, Gordon.
Authorized Absence: Dolan, Reed,
Rybka.

The City Record

52

April 27, 2005

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments
Agreements
Washington lobbying services — Holland & Knight LLP (O 265-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 756
Appreciation
Simmons, Missionary Helen (R 805-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Appropriations
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs — operation — Community Development Block Grant
funds and Federal HOME funds (O 767-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
Assessment Equalization Board
Euclid Ave. — Assessment Notice — objection from property owners
(F 2372-04-C)- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
Banners
Cleveland Zoological Society — Huntington Bank Twilight at the Zoo (O 728-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 761
Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Carnegie Avenue, 6512, (Ward 5) — Accurate Plating Company c/o Charles A. Foley, owner —
appeal adopted on 4/20/05 (Doc. A-137-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 105th Street, 1561, (Ward 6) — LDV, Inc., owner — appeal resolved on 4/20/05
(Doc. A-31-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 152nd Street, 1070, (Ward 10) — City of Cleveland Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, owner — appeal resolved on 4/20/05 (Doc. A-33-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 39th Street, 1719, (Ward 13) — Ronald Katz/Ohio Mills Supply, owner — appeal adopted
on 4/20/05 (Doc. A-20-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 10318, (Ward 19) — Joseph Maalouf, owner — appeal resolved on 4/20/05
(Doc. A-32-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 13000, (Ward 10) — BMG Management Group, owner — appeal adopted
on 4/20/05 (Doc. A-93-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wade Park Avenue, 7038, (Ward 7) — Al Avery — Ruby’s Deli Inc., owner — appeal postponed
to 5/4/05 on 4/20/05 (Doc. A-28-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 30th Street, 3285, (Ward 13) — Michael Scordos, owner — appeal postponed to 5/4/05
on 4/20/05 (Doc. A-35-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 65th Street, 1406-14, (Ward 17) — OCDS Limited Partnership, owner — appeal adopted
on 4/20/05 (Doc. A-30-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 9th Street, 1300, (Ward 13) — Otis Associates, owner — appeal resolved on 4/20/05
(Doc. A-37-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 751
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 751
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 751
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 751
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 751
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 751
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 750
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 751
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 751
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 751

Board of Control — Architecture Division
Cleveland Harbor Coast Guard Station rehabilitation planning and evaluation services amend BOC Res. 104-05 — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 186-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 747
Board of Control — Brookside Park
Concession stands — amend agreement per BOC Res. 279-02 — Division of Park
Maintenance and Properties, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 185-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 747
Board of Control — Burke Lakefront Airport Division
Rental fees for meeting rooms — amend Section 571.88 per Ord. 2055-04 — Dept.
of Port Control (BOC Res. 182-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 747
Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Rental fees for meeting rooms — amend Section 571.88 per Ord. 2055-04 — Dept.
of Port Control (BOC Res. 182-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 747

762

April 27, 2005

The City Record

53

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Briggs Road (Ward 18) — PPN 017-18-027 — to Jean Polasko (BOC Res. 191-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. — various parcels (Ward 5) per Ord.
2394-03 (BOC Res. 188-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. — various parcels (Ward 5) per Ord.
1025-96 (BOC Res. 189-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Avenue (Ward 5) — PPN 103-22-038 — to Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. (BOC Res.
Home Builders Association of Greater Cleveland — various parcels (Ward 8) per Ord. 423-05
(BOC Res. 190-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stockyard Redevelopment Organization — various parcels (Wards 14, 17) on scattered sites
per Ord. 374-05 (BOC Res. 187-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 748
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 748
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 748
192-05) . . . . . . . 749
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 748
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 748

Board of Control — Concession Agreement
Concession stands at Brookside and Gordon Parks — amend agreement per BOC Res. 279-02 —
Division of Park Maintenance and Properties, Dept. of Parks, Recreation
and Properties (BOC Res. 185-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 747
Board of Control — Finance Department
Speed monitoring trailer — contract per Ord. 657-03 to Kustom Signals, Inc. (BOC Res. 178-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 746
Board of Control — Gordon Park
Concession stands — amend agreement per BOC Res. 279-02 — Division of Park Maintenance
and Properties, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 185-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 747
Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Briggs Road (Ward 18) — PPN 017-18-027 — to Jean Polasko (BOC Res. 191-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. — various parcels (Ward 5) per Ord. 2394-03 (BOC Res. 188-05) . . . .
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. — various parcels (Ward 5) per Ord.
1025-96 (BOC Res. 189-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Avenue (Ward 5) — PPN 103-22-038 — to Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. (BOC Res. 192-05)
Home Builders Association of Greater Cleveland — various parcels (Ward 8) per Ord. 423-05
(BOC Res. 190-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stockyard Redevelopment Organization — various parcels (Wards 14, 17) on scattered sites
per Ord. 374-05 (BOC Res. 187-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . 748
. . . . . . . 748
. . . . . . . 748
. . . . . . . 749
. . . . . . . 748
. . . . . . . 748

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 5)
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. — various parcels (Ward 5) per Ord.
2394-03 (BOC Res. 188-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 748
Central Avenue (Ward 5) — PPN 103-22-038 — to Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. (BOC Res. 192-05) . . . . . . . 749
Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 8)
Home Builders Association of Greater Cleveland — various parcels (Ward 8) per Ord. 423-05
(BOC Res. 190-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 748
Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 14)
Stockyard Redevelopment Organization — various parcels (Wards 14, 17) on scattered sites
per Ord. 374-05 (BOC Res. 187-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 748
Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 18)
Briggs Road (Ward 18) — PPN 017-18-027 — to Jean Polasko (BOC Res. 191-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 748
Board of Control — Park Maintenance and Properties Division
Concession stands at Brookside and Gordon Parks — amend agreement per BOC Res. 279-02 —
Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 185-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 747
Board of Control — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Cleveland Harbor Coast Guard Station rehabilitation planning and evaluation services —
amend BOC Res. 104-05 — Division of Architecture (BOC Res. 186-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Collinwood Athletic Complex — contract per Ord. 2243-03, 1670-04, 2365-04 to Great Lakes
Construction Company — Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept.
of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 193-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Concession stands at Brookside and Gordon Parks — amend agreement per BOC Res. 279-02
Division of Park Maintenance and Properties (BOC Res. 185-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

763

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 747

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 749
—
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 747

The City Record

54

April 27, 2005

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Automatic doors, labor and materials to repair and maintain — contract per Ord. 2237-04
to Cleveland Door Controls, Inc. (BOC Res. 183-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 747
Promotional activities — contract per Ord. 8-05 to Brand Insights (BOC Res. 181-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 746
Rental fees for meeting rooms — amend Section 571.88 per Ord. 2055-04 — Divisions
of Burke Lakefront Airport and Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(BOC Res. 182-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 747
Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Cleveland Harbor Coast Guard Station rehabilitation planning and evaluation services —
amend BOC Res. 104-05 — Division of Architecture, Dept. of Parks, Recreation
and Properties (BOC Res. 186-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 747
Promotional activities — contract per Ord. 8-05 to Brand Insights — Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 181-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 746
Safety Training Classes (Hazwoper and Asbestos) — extend Contract #61208 per
BOC Res. 137-03 — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 179-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 746
Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Collinwood Athletic Complex — contract per Ord. 2243-03, 1670-04, 2365-04 to Great Lakes
Construction Company — Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept.
of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 193-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 749
Franklin Avenue/West 25th Street Area sewer replacement — contract per Ord. 841-04
to Fabrizi Trucking & Paving Co., Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 180-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 746
Board of Control — Public Service Department
Cable pulling device rehabilitation — contract per Ord. 1481-04 to Utility
Truck Equipment, Inc. (BOC Res. 184-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 747
Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Franklin Avenue/West 25th Street Area sewer replacement — contract per Ord. 841-04
to Fabrizi Trucking & Paving Co., Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control
(BOC Res. 180-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 746
Safety Training Classes (Hazwoper and Asbestos) — extend Contract #61208 per
BOC Res. 137-03 — Division of Water (BOC Res. 179-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 746
Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Automatic doors, labor and materials to repair and maintain — contract per Ord. 2237-04
to Cleveland Door Controls, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 183-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 747
Cable pulling device rehabilitation — contract per Ord. 1481-04 to Utility
Truck Equipment, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 184-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 747
Board of Control — Research, Planning and Development Division
Collinwood Athletic Complex — contract per Ord. 2243-03, 1670-04, 2365-04 to Great Lakes
Construction Company — Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept.
of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 193-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 749
Board of Control — Standard Purchase Contracts
Speed monitoring trailer — contract per Ord. 657-03 to Kustom Signals, Inc. — Dept. of
Finance (BOC Res. 178-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 746
Board of Control — Water Division
Safety Training Classes (Hazwoper and Asbestos) — extend Contract #61208 per
BOC Res. 137-03 — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 179-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 746
Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Franklin Avenue/West 25th Street Area sewer replacement — contract per Ord. 841-04
to Fabrizi Trucking & Paving Co., Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 180-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 746
Board of Education
Recreational, cultural, and extracurricular programs — 2004-2005 school year (O 765-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724

764

April 27, 2005

The City Record

55

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Cedar Avenue, 7901, (Ward 6) — Midwest Telecom Payphones, c/o Mark Higgins, President —
appeal dismissed on 4/25/05 (Cal. 05-8) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 156th Street, 269-271, (Ward 11) — Doreen Mitchell, owner — appeal withdrawn
on 4/25/05 (Cal. 05-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 31st Street, 1583, (Ward 13) — Mueller Electric, owner and Mueller Condominiums LLC
c/o Tesco, prospective purchaser and Scott Bofinger, agent — appeal heard on 4/25/05
(Cal. 05-65) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Frontier Avenue, 6008, (Ward 17) — Dorothy Wittal, owner and Wally Chmielewski, agent —
appeal granted and adopted on 4/25/05 (Cal. 05-61) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Memphis Avenue, 6100, (Ward 16) — Anthony DiDonato, owner — appeal heard on 4/25/05
(Cal. 05-66) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Avenue, 13528-30, (Ward 1) — Marvin Butler, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
4/25/05 (Cal. 04-321). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North Coast Payphones, Inc., owner, and Howard Meister — appeal postponed to 5/23/05 on
4/25/05 (Cal. 04-328). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North Coast Payphones/ClevePhones, Inc., Howard Meister, President — appeal postponed to
5/23/05 on 4/25/05 (Cal. 05-2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North Coast Payphones/ClevePhones, Inc., owner, and Howard Meister — appeal postponed to
5/23/05 on 4/25/05 (Cal. 04-330) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pearl Road, 4376, (Ward 16) — Thomas Walsh, owner — appeal withdrawn on 4/25/05
(Cal. 05-64) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Avenue, 13448, (Ward 20) — Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority c/o Mike Hobbs —
appeal granted and adopted on 4/25/05 (Cal. 05-29) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy Avenue, 7007, (Ward 5) — Advance Iron, Inc., owner and Gary Gross, agent — appeal
granted and adopted on 4/25/05 (Cal. 05-31) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Storer Avenue, 6104, (Ward 17) — Khalil Ewais, owner — appeal withdrawn on 4/25/05
(Cal. 05-39) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 129th Street, 3940, (Ward 19) — Carlos and Madeline Rodriguez, owners — appeal
denied and adopted on 4/25/05 (Cal. 05-60) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 750
. . . . . . . . . . . 750

. . . . . . . . . . . 750
. . . . . . . . . . . 750
. . . . . . . . . . . 750
. . . . . . . . . . . 750
. . . . . . . . . . . 750
. . . . . . . . . . . 750
. . . . . . . . . . . 750
. . . . . . . . . . . 750
. . . . . . . . . . . 750
. . . . . . . . . . . 750
. . . . . . . . . . . 750
. . . . . . . . . . . 750

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Bayliss Avenue, 6712-18, (Ward 7) — Victor Bondar, owner — appeal to be heard on 5/9/05
(Cal. 05-76) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 152nd Street, 1070, (Ward 10) — City of Cleveland Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, owner — appeal to be heard on 5/9/05 (Cal. 05-115) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Road, 11802, (Ward 3) — Arthur and Marjorie Doxey, owners — appeal to be heard
on 5/9/05 (Cal. 05-80) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lee Road, 4159 and 4360, (Ward 1) — North Coast Payphones, Inc. and Howard Meister —
appeal to be heard on 5/9/05 (Cal. 05-74) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tibor, Sarossy — appeal to be heard on 5/9/05 (Cal. 05-75) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 750
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 750
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 750
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 750
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 750

Bonds
Water Revenue Bonds — issuance and sale — $100,000,000 (O 754-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Building and Housing Department
Hewlett-Packard Co. and Progress Software — computer hardware and software maintenance
— Departments of Community Development and Building and Housing (O 768-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
City Council
Nagin, Rick — employment termination (R 787-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 743
City of Cleveland Bids
Bulk waste transfer and disposal (Contract B) — Department of Public Service —
Division of Waste Collection and Disposal — per Ord. 360-05 — bid due May 4, 2005
(advertised 4/20/2005 and 4/27/2005). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Concrete, ready-mix — Department of Finance — per Ord. 550-05 — bid due May 13, 2005
(advertised 4/20/2005 and 4/27/2005). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Daimler Chrysler vehicle parts and labor — Department of Public Service — Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 776-04 — bid due April 27, 2005
(advertised 4/13/2005 and 4/20/2005). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Debris (construction and demolition) disposal (Contracts C and D) — Department of Public
Service — Division of Waste Collection and Disposal — per Ord. 363-05 — bid due May
6, 2005 (advertised 4/20/2005 and 4/27/2005) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Corridor areaways and vault improvements — Department of Public Service —
Division of Engineering and Construction — per Ord. 1815-04 — bid due May 5, 2005
(advertised 4/13/2005 and 4/20/2005). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fairview Park site improvements — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties —
Division of Research, Planning and Development — per Ord. 1114-02, 2151-03 — bid due
April 27, 2005(advertised 4/13/2005 and 4/20/2005) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

765

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 752
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 752

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 752

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 686

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685

The City Record

56

April 27, 2005

Fence installation and repair at East 65th Station — Department of Public Service —
Division of Streets — per Ord. 1499-04 — bid due May 11, 2005
(advertised 4/20/2005 and 4/27/2005 and 5/4/2005) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Furniture for Employment Access Center — Department of Economic Development —
Division of Workforce Development — per Ord. 424-04 — bid due April 27, 2005
(advertised 4/13/2005 and 4/20/2005). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
GMC medium and heavy duty truck parts and labor — Department of Public Service —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 923-04 — bid due May 4, 2005
(advertised 4/13/2005 and 4/20/2005). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Liquid chlorine — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per C.O. Sec.
129.24 — bid due May 20, 2005 (advertised 4/13/2005 and 4/20/2005) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paper products — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 2291-04 —
bid due April 29, 2005(advertised 4/13/2005 and 4/20/2005) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Plumbing, sewer and gas line repair — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Cleveland Public
Power — per Ord. 2289-04 — bid due May 5, 2005 (advertised 4/13/2005 and 4/20/2005) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Solid waste direct haul (Contract “Contingency”) — Department of Public Service —
Division of Waste Collection and Disposal — per Ord. 362-05 — bid due May 5, 2005
(advertised 4/20/2005 and 4/27/2005). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Solid waste transfer and disposal (Contract W) — Department of Public Service —
Division of Waste Collection and Disposal — per Ord. 361-05 — bid due May 4, 2005
(advertised 4/20/2005 and 4/27/2005). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tire transfer and disposal (Contract T) — Department of Public Service — Division of Waste Collection
and Disposal — per Ord. 364-05 — bid due May 5, 2005 (advertised 4/20/2005 and 4/27/2005) . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . 752

. . . . . . 686

. . . . . . 686
. . . . . . 686
. . . . . . 686
. . . . . . 686

. . . . . . 752

. . . . . . 752
. . . . . . 752

City Planning Commission
Connecting Cleveland 2020 Citywide Plan Program — grant — Cleveland Foundation — amend
Ord. No. 1855-04 (O 782-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 55th St. (west side) & E. 49th St. (east side) — Change the zoning — RA2 Townhouse
District and a ‘1’ Height District (O 784-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hinde Ave. (north) — changing the zoning — General Retail Business District, a ‘C’ Area
District and a ‘2’ Height District (O 133-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
John Marshall High School — Cleveland Landmark (O 377-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Medical Building, The — Cleveland Landmarks (O 241-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 117th St. (west) between Western Ave. & I-90 — change the zoning — General Retail
Business (O 592-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Community Entertainment District — establish (O 294-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
William Cullen Bryant Elementary School — Cleveland Landmark (O 240-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . 728
. . . . . . . . . 729
. . . . . . . . . 754
. . . . . . . . . 757
. . . . . . . . . 756
. . . . . . . . . 760
. . . . . . . . . 756
. . . . . . . . . 756

Cleveland Foundation
Connecting Cleveland 2020 Citywide Plan Program — grant — amend Ord. No. 1855-04 (O 782-05) . . . . . . . 728
CT Acquisitions I and Dominion Cleveland Thermal, Inc. — clarify the deposit — Ord. No.
1519-04 — agreement — grant program (O 753-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Deicing services — amend Ord. No. 1124-01 (O 760-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 723
Cleveland Housing Network
Fern Court Townhouse project — water main — utility work — deed of easement (O 758-05) . . . . . . . . . . . 721
Cleveland Municipal Court
Deputy bailiff’s and probation officer’s vehicle mileage allowances
and 171.45 (O 756-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Drug and alcohol testing services — contract — Cuyahoga County
Board (O 576-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

— amend Sects. 171.44
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 719
Corrections Planning
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 745

Cleveland Municipal School District
E. 93rd & Harvard Ave. — Land Reutilization Program (O 424-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 745
Cleveland Public Theater
Youth to grow — Ward 6, 13, 17 NEF (O 727-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 761
Codified Ordinances
Construction of private roads — new Section 501.031 —
Deputy bailiff’s and probation officer’s vehicle mileage
171.44 and 171.45 (O 756-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Qualifications for certificates of registration — limited
310.07 and 3107.08 (O 772-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

766

penalties — amend Sec. 501.99 (O 242-05) . . . . . . . 744
allowances — amend Sects.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 719
certificates — amend Sections
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 727

April 27, 2005

The City Record

57

Collective Bargaining Agreements
Cleveland Building and Construction Trades Council — amend Sec. 43 of Ord. No. 384-03
(O 773-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fraternal Order of Police, Ohio Labor Council, Inc. (Security Officers) — amend Sec. 14
of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 779-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
International Association of Machinists District Council 54, Local 439 — amend Sects.
16 & 30 of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 585-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 38 — amend Sec. 19 of Ord. No.
384-03 (O 775-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
International Local 100, AFSCME Ohio Council 8 AFL-CIA — amend Sects. 8, 28, 37, & 40
— Ord. No. 384-03 (O 774-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 10 — amend Sec. 11 of Ord. No. 384-03
(O 776-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Municipal Foremen and Laborer’s Union (Chartered: Municipal, County & State Employees’
Union Local 1099, AFL-CIO)(Non-Supervisory) — amend Sec. 24 of Ord. No. 384-03
(O 777-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Municipal Foremen and Laborer’s Union (Chartered: Municipal, County & State Employees’
Union Local 1099, AFL-CIO)(Supervisory) — new Sec. 24a — Ord. No. 384-03
(O 778-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association (Chief Dispatcher) — amend Sec. 14a of Ord. No.
384-03 (O 781-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Plumbers Inspectors, Local 55 — amend Sects. 20 & 31 of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 780-05) . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 731
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 741
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 738
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 731
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 738

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 739

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 740
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 742
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 741

Communications
Cleveland Public Library — Director’s Report, April 21, 2005 (F 790-05) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contractual Awards — MBE/FBE Procurement 2004 Grand Total (F 788-05) . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave. — Assessment Notice — objection from property owners (F 2372-04-C).
Northeast Ohio Coalition for the Homeless — discontent with Ordinance No. 695-05
regarding panhandling (F 789-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713

Community Development
Cleveland Action to Support Housing, Inc. (CASH) — contracts — housing rehabilitation,
new housing construction and commercial redevelopment loan programs (O 769-05) . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Public Theater — youth to grow — Ward 6, 13, 17 NEF (O 727-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community development programs — contracts — social service agencies, community
development or local development corporations and private for profit entities
(O 770-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crawford Rd. — Land Reutilization Program — Terrence Thompkins and Veora
Croft-Thompkins (O 422-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 93rd & Harvard Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland Municipal School
District (O 424-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fenwick Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Stockyard Redevelopment Organization
(O 474-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hewlett-Packard Co. and Progress Software — computer hardware and software maintenance
— Departments of Community Development and Building and Housing (O 768-05) . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Rd. & E. 132nd St. — Land Reutilization Program — Mt. Pleasant Now Development
Corp. (O 376-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Rd. — Land Reutilization Program — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
(O 757-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Rd., 13917 — Land Reutilization Program — Mt. Pleasant Now Development Corp.
(O 375-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs — operation — Community Development Block Grant
funds and Federal HOME funds (O 767-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Northeast Neighborhood Development Corporation — promote neighborhood stability and
sustainability (O 726-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Olive Court — Land Reutilization Program — Melanie Shounnette Powell Brazil (O 421-05) . . . .
Otis Associates Limited Partnership — Contract No. 53646 — amend — Community
Development (O 232-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Place Apartments — 1004 Prospect Ave. — rehabilitation — amend Ord. No.
370-05 (O 771-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Third Project Apartments — 9830 Denison Ave. — Aftercare Resource Center — 9216 Miles
Park Ave. — purchase and convey properties — EDEN, Inc. (O 473-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . 761

. . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . 744
. . . . . . . . . 745
. . . . . . . . . 745
. . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . 744
. . . . . . . . . 720
. . . . . . . . . 744
. . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . 761
. . . . . . . . . 744
. . . . . . . . . 744
. . . . . . . . . 727
. . . . . . . . . 758

Community Development Block Grant Program
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs — operation — Community Development Block Grant
funds and Federal HOME funds (O 767-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
Concession Agreements
Convention Center — City-owned or City-leased facilities — Food and beverage —
(O 764-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724

767

The City Record

58

April 27, 2005

Condolences
Berric, Don (R 795-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Martin, Kathleen A. (R 794-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Robinson, Rev. Dr. Dennis (R 796-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Congratulations
American Sokol Organization (R 802-05)
Brady, Councilwoman Brady (R 797-05) .
King Soloman Grand Lodge (R 798-05) .
Oatman, Denise (R 799-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
San Lorenzo Club (R 801-05) . . . . . . . . . . .
Schultz, Connie (R 800-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woost, Joan (R 803-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

714
714
714
714
714
714
714

Contracts
C.C.G. Systems, Inc. — professional services — software maintenance — Fleet Management
Information System (O 2106-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Action to Support Housing, Inc. (CASH) — housing rehabilitation, new housing
construction and commercial redevelopment loan programs (O 769-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Drug and alcohol testing services — Cleveland Municipal Court — contract — Cuyahoga
County Corrections Planning Board (O 576-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hamilton/Marquette Limited Partnership — economic development assistance — redevelop
property — 5401 Hamilton Ave. (O 420-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hewlett-Packard Co. and Progress Software — computer hardware and software maintenance
— Departments of Community Development and Building and Housing (O 768-05) . . . . . . . .
Kenmore Construction Co. — amendment to Contract No. 61844 — continuation of pavement
grinding services — Division of Streets (O 761-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North Point Garage — amendment to Contract No. 38823 — North Point Garage Limited
Partnership (O 752-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oracle Corp. — amendment to Contract No. 61226 — amend Ord. No. 485-03 (O 783-05) . . . . . . . . .
Otis Associates Limited Partnership — Contract No. 53646 — amend — Community
Development (O 232-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Place Apartments — 1004 Prospect Ave. — rehabilitation — amend Ord. No.
370-05 (O 771-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ZEN Industries, Inc. — economic development assistance — develop property — 2340 E.
69th St. (O 419-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 753
. . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . 745
. . . . . . . . . . 744
. . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . 723
. . . . . . . . . . 714
. . . . . . . . . . 729
. . . . . . . . . . 744
. . . . . . . . . . 727
. . . . . . . . . . 744

Convention Center
Concession Agreements — food and beverage — City-owned or City-leased facilities
(O 764-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724
Deeds
Fern Court Townhouse project — water main — utility work — Cleveland Housing Network
— deed of easement (O 758-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 721
Easements
Fern Court Townhouse project — water main — utility work — Cleveland Housing Network
— deed of easement (O 758-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 721
Economic Development Department
Hamilton/Marquette Limited Partnership — economic development assistance
property — 5401 Hamilton Ave. (O 420-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ZEN Industries, Inc. — economic development assistance — develop property
69th St. (O 419-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

— redevelop
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 744
— 2340 E.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 744

Female Business Enterprise
Contractual Awards — MBE/FBE Procurement 2004 Grand Total (F 788-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
Finance Department
Drug and alcohol testing services — Cleveland Municipal Court — contract — Cuyahoga
County Corrections Planning Board (O 576-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Group V high volume copiers — maintain — various divisions (O 755-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Heavy duty vehicles and apparatus — purchase, lease or lease to purchase — various
Divisions — Department of Public Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties,
and Public Safety (O 762-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Membership dues — payment — various professional organizations (O 266-05) . . . . . . . . . . .
Messenger services — purchase — various divisions (O 548-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

768

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 719

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 723
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 756
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 745

April 27, 2005

The City Record

59

Moving services — purchase — various divisions (O 549-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North Point Garage — amendment to Contract No. 38823 — North Point Garage Limited
Partnership (O 752-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oracle Corp. — amendment to Contract No. 61226 — amend Ord. No. 485-03 (O 783-05) . . . . . . . . .
Telecommunications network services — purchase — Division of Information Technology and
Services (O 551-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Washington lobbying services — agreement — Holland & Knight LLP (O 265-05) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water Revenue Bonds — issuance and sale — $100,000,000 (O 754-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 759
. . . . . . . . . . 714
. . . . . . . . . . 729
. . . . . . . . . . 759
. . . . . . . . . . 756
. . . . . . . . . . 714

Grants
Connecting Cleveland 2020 Citywide Plan Program — Cleveland Foundation — amend Ord. No.
1855-04 (O 782-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 728
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant, 2005 — U. S. Department of Justice (O 763-05) . . . . . . . 724
Information System Services Division
Telecommunications network services — purchase (O 551-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 759
Land Reutilization Program
Crawford Rd. — Terrence Thompkins and Veora Croft-Thompkins (O 422-05) . . .
E. 93rd & Harvard Ave. — Cleveland Municipal School District (O 424-05). . . . . .
Fenwick Ave. — Stockyard Redevelopment Organization (O 474-05) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Rd. & E. 132nd St. — Mt. Pleasant Now Development Corp. (O 376-05)
Kinsman Rd. — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. (O 757-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Rd., 13917 — Mt. Pleasant Now Development Corp. (O 375-05) . . . . . . . .
Olive Court — Melanie Shounnette Powell Brazil (O 421-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

744
745
745
744
720
744
744

Landmark Commission
John Marshall High School — Cleveland Landmark (O 377-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 757
Lorain Medical Building, The — Cleveland Landmarks (O 241-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 756
William Cullen Bryant Elementary School — Cleveland Landmark (O 240-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 756
Leases
Cleveland Rowing Foundation — lease certain property (O 127-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 744
Libraries
Cleveland Public Library — Director’s Report, April 21, 2005 (F 790-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
Liquor Permits
Mayfield Rd., 12407 — transfer (Ward 6) (F 792-05). .
Memphis Ave., 7210 — new (Ward 16) (F 791-05) . . . .
Triskett Rd., 13951 — objection (Ward 20) (R 786-05)
Triskett Rd., 13951 — objection (Ward 20) (R 786-05)
W. 73rd St., 3224 — objection (Ward 17) (R 729-05) . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

713
713
743
743
753

Loans
Water Supply Revolving Loan Account loan — Baldwin Rapid Mix/Flocculation/Sedimentation
Project (O 2294-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753
Memoranda of Understanding
Community development programs — contracts — social service agencies, community
development or local development corporations and private for profit entities (O 770-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
Minority Business Enterprises
Contractual Awards — MBE/FBE Procurement 2004 Grand Total (F 788-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
Neighborhood Equity Funds
Northeast Neighborhood Development Corporation — promote neighborhood stability and
sustainability (O 726-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 761
North Point Garage Ltd. Partnership
North Point Garage — amendment to Contract No. 38823 — North Point Garage Limited
Partnership (O 752-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714

769

The City Record

60

April 27, 2005

Nottingham Water Treatment Plant
Indoor and outdoor improvements (O 2295-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 754
Office of Equal Opportunity
Contractual Awards — MBE/FBE Procurement 2004 Grand Total (F 788-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
Ohio City Near West Development Corporation
Franklin Blvd., 3207 — sublease property — improving and expanding Fairview Park
(O 766-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724
Panhandling
Northeast Ohio Coalition for the Homeless — discontent with Ordinance No. 695-05
regarding panhandling (F 789-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
Parks
Thrush Park — ball diamond number one — change the name — Ralph J. Lukich Ball Diamond
(O 719-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 761
Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Brecksville, City of — sell City-owned property — Oakes Rd. & Metro Parks Blvd.
(O 651-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Board of Education — recreational, cultural, and extracurricular programs —
2004-2005 school year (O 765-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Rowing Foundation — lease certain property (O 127-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Concession Agreements — food and beverage — Convention Center — City-owned
or City-leased facilities (O 764-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
CT Acquisitions I and Dominion Cleveland Thermal, Inc. — clarify the deposit — Ord. No.
1519-04 — Cleveland Foundation — agreement — grant program (O 753-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Blvd., 3207 — sublease property — improving and expanding Fairview Park
(O 766-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Heavy duty vehicles and apparatus — purchase, lease or lease to purchase — various
Divisions — Department of Public Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties,
and Public Safety (O 762-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thrush Park — ball diamond number one — change the name — Ralph J. Lukich Ball Diamond
(O 719-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . 745
. . . . . . . 724
. . . . . . . 744
. . . . . . . 724
. . . . . . . 714
. . . . . . . 724

. . . . . . . 723
. . . . . . . 761

Permits
Muldoon’s Saloon and Eatery — public right-of-way — Mozina Drive — landscape strip
(O 578-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 745
RiteAid Marathon 28th & 10K — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (O 785-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 743
Personnel Department
Cleveland Building and Construction Trades Council — collective bargaining agreement —
amend Sec. 43 of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 773-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fraternal Order of Police, Ohio Labor Council, Inc. (Security Officers) — collective
bargaining agreement — amend Sec. 14 of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 779-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
International Association of Machinists District Council 54, Local 439 — collective
bargaining agreement — amend Sects. 16 & 30 of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 585-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 38 — collective bargaining
agreement — amend Sec. 19 of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 775-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
International Local 100, AFSCME Ohio Council 8 AFL-CIA — collective bargaining agreement
— amend Sects. 8, 28, 37, & 40 — Ord. No. 384-03 (O 774-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 10 — collective bargaining agreement
— amend Sec. 11 of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 776-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Municipal Foremen and Laborer’s Union (Chartered: Municipal, County & State Employees’
Union Local 1099, AFL-CIO)(Non-Supervisory) — collective bargaining agreement —
amend Sec. 24 of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 777-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Municipal Foremen and Laborer’s Union (Chartered: Municipal, County & State Employees’
Union Local 1099, AFL-CIO)(Supervisory) — collective bargaining agreement — new
Sec. 24a — Ord. No. 384-03 (O 778-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association (Chief Dispatcher) — collective bargaining
agreement — amend Sec. 14a of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 781-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Plumbers Inspectors, Local 55 — collective bargaining agreement — amend Sects. 20 & 31
of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 780-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 731
. . . . . . . . . . 741
. . . . . . . . . . 745
. . . . . . . . . . 738
. . . . . . . . . . 731
. . . . . . . . . . 738

. . . . . . . . . . 739

. . . . . . . . . . 740
. . . . . . . . . . 742
. . . . . . . . . . 741

Plats
Wellington Place for Mt. Pleasant Now Development Corporation — subdivision plat (F 793-05) . . . . . . . . . 713

770

April 27, 2005

The City Record

61

Port Control Department
Airfield signage — furnish and install — Standard Signs, Inc. (O 759-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bunker gear suits — purchase (O 463-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deicing chemicals — purchase — various divisions (O 413-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deicing services — amend Ord. No. 1124-01 (O 760-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Landscaping exterior and other site — maintain or replace — various divisions
(O 415-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Snow removal equipment — heavy-duty equipment with operators — rental — various
divisions (O 414-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

722
758
757
723

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 757
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 757

Purchases and Supplies Division
Brecksville, City of — sell City-owned property — Oakes Rd. & Metro Parks Blvd.
(O 651-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 745
Third Project Apartments — 9830 Denison Ave. — Aftercare Resource Center — 9216 Miles
Park Ave. — purchase and convey properties — EDEN, Inc. (O 473-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 758
Recognition
Ivy, Dexter (R 804-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Cleveland Realtist Association — promote homeownership — Council’s appreciation
(R 740-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753
Nagin, Rick — employment termination (R 787-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 743
Right-of-Way
Muldoon’s Saloon and Eatery — permit — public right-of-way — Mozina Drive — landscape
strip (O 578-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 745
Safety Department
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant, 2005 — grant — U. S. Department
of Justice (O 763-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724
Heavy duty vehicles and apparatus — purchase, lease or lease to purchase — various
Divisions — Department of Public Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties,
and Public Safety (O 762-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 723
Salaries
Cleveland Building and Construction Trades Council — collective bargaining agreement —
amend Sec. 43 of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 773-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fraternal Order of Police, Ohio Labor Council, Inc. (Security Officers) — collective
bargaining agreement — amend Sec. 14 of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 779-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
International Association of Machinists District Council 54, Local 439 — collective
bargaining agreement — amend Sects. 16 & 30 of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 585-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 38 — collective bargaining
agreement — amend Sec. 19 of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 775-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
International Local 100, AFSCME Ohio Council 8 AFL-CIA — collective bargaining agreement
— amend Sects. 8, 28, 37, & 40 — Ord. No. 384-03 (O 774-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 10 — collective bargaining agreement
— amend Sec. 11 of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 776-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Municipal Foremen and Laborer’s Union (Chartered: Municipal, County & State Employees’
Union Local 1099, AFL-CIO)(Non-Supervisory) — collective bargaining agreement —
amend Sec. 24 of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 777-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Municipal Foremen and Laborer’s Union (Chartered: Municipal, County & State Employees’
Union Local 1099, AFL-CIO)(Supervisory) — collective bargaining agreement — new
Sec. 24a — Ord. No. 384-03 (O 778-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association (Chief Dispatcher) — collective bargaining
agreement — amend Sec. 14a of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 781-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Plumbers Inspectors, Local 55 — collective bargaining agreement — amend Sects. 20 & 31
of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 780-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 731
. . . . . . . . . . 741
. . . . . . . . . . 745
. . . . . . . . . . 738
. . . . . . . . . . 731
. . . . . . . . . . 738

. . . . . . . . . . 739

. . . . . . . . . . 740
. . . . . . . . . . 742
. . . . . . . . . . 741

Service Department
C.C.G. Systems, Inc. — professional services — software maintenance — Fleet Management
Information System (O 2106-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Zoological Society — banner — Huntington Bank Twilight at the Zoo (O 728-05).
Emulsion and purging solution — purchase — Division of Streets (O 466-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave. — Assessment Notice — objection from property owners (F 2372-04-C). . . . . . . . .
Heavy duty vehicles and apparatus — purchase, lease or lease to purchase — various
Divisions — Department of Public Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties,
and Public Safety (O 762-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

771

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

753
761
745
713

. . . . . . . . . . . . 723

The City Record

62

April 27, 2005

Kenmore Construction Co. — amendment to Contract No. 61844 — continuation of pavement
grinding services — Division of Streets (O 761-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Magnedium chloride — purchase — Division of Streets (O 467-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Manhole risers — purchase — Division of Streets (O 468-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Muldoon’s Saloon and Eatery — permit — public right-of-way — Mozina Drive — landscape
strip (O 578-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
RiteAid Marathon 28th & 10K — permit — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (O 785-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rock salt — purchase — Division of Streets (O 469-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scale pits — clean and maintain — Ridge Road Scale House — Ridge Road Transfer Station
— Division of Waste Collection and Disposal (O 470-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Traffic signal and pavement marking equipment — purchase — Division of Traffic
Engineering (O 417-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 723
. . . . . . . . . . 745
. . . . . . . . . . 745
. . . . . . . . . . 745
. . . . . . . . . . 743
. . . . . . . . . . 745
. . . . . . . . . . 745
. . . . . . . . . . 744

Sidewalks
Euclid Ave. — Assessment Notice — objection from property owners (F 2372-04-C) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
Streets
Construction of private roads — new Section 501.031 — penalties — amend Sec. 501.99 (O 242-05) . . . . . . . 744
Streets Division
Emulsion and purging solution — purchase (O 466-05) . . . . . . . .
Kenmore Construction Co. — amendment to Contract No. 61844
grinding services (O 761-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Magnedium chloride — purchase (O 467-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Manhole risers — purchase (O 468-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rock salt — purchase (O 469-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

...
—
...
...
...
...

............
continuation
............
............
............
............

...
of
...
...
...
...

..........
pavement
..........
..........
..........
..........

. . . . . . . . . . . . 745
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

723
745
745
745

Traffic Engineering & Parking Division
Traffic signal and pavement marking equipment — purchase (O 417-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 744
Utilities Department
CT Acquisitions I and Dominion Cleveland Thermal, Inc. — clarify the deposit — Ord. No.
1519-04 — Cleveland Foundation — agreement — grant program (O 753-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fern Court Townhouse project — water main — utility work — Cleveland Housing Network
— deed of easement (O 758-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nottingham Water Works Facility — indoor and outdoor improvements (O 2295-04) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water Supply Revolving Loan Account loan — Baldwin Rapid Mix/Flocculation/Sedimentation
Project (O 2294-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . 714
. . . . . . . . . 721
. . . . . . . . . 754
. . . . . . . . . 753

Ward 01
Brady, Councilwoman Brady — congratulation (R 797-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Ward 02
Berric, Don (R 795-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brady, Councilwoman Brady — congratulation (R 797-05) .
E. 93rd & Harvard Ave. — Land Reutilization Program —
District (O 424-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Robinson, Rev. Dr. Dennis — condolence (R 796-05) . . . . . . .

..........
..........
Cleveland
..........
..........

..........
..........
Municipal
..........
..........

.......
.......
School
.......
.......

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714

Ward 03
Brady, Councilwoman Brady — congratulation (R 797-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Rd. & E. 132nd St. — Land Reutilization Program — Mt. Pleasant Now Development
Corp. (O 376-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Rd., 13917 — Land Reutilization Program — Mt. Pleasant Now Development Corp.
(O 375-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wellington Place for Mt. Pleasant Now Development Corporation — subdivision plat (F 793-05)

. . . . . . . . . 714
. . . . . . . . . 744
. . . . . . . . . 744
. . . . . . . . . 713

Ward 04
Brady, Councilwoman Brady — congratulation (R 797-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Ward 05
Brady, Councilwoman Brady — congratulation (R 797-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ivy, Dexter — recognition (R 804-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
King Soloman Grand Lodge — congratulation (R 798-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Rd. — Land Reutilization Program — Burten, Bell, Carr Development,

772

....
....
....
Inc.

...
...
...
(O

........
........
........
757-05) .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

714
714
714
720

April 27, 2005

The City Record

63

Martin, Kathleen A. — condolence (R 794-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oatman, Denise — congratulation (R 799-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
RiteAid Marathon 28th & 10K — permit — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (O 785-05) . . . . . . . .
Simmons, Missionary Helen — appreciation (R 805-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ZEN Industries, Inc. — economic development assistance — develop property — 2340 E.
69th St. (O 419-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

714
714
743
714

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 744

Ward 06
Brady, Councilwoman Brady — congratulation (R 797-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Public Theater — youth to grow — Ward 6, 13, 17 NEF (O 727-05) . .
Mayfield Rd., 12407 — transfer — liquor permit (F 792-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
RiteAid Marathon 28th & 10K — permit — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (O 785-05)

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

714
761
713
743

Ward 07
Brady, Councilwoman Brady — congratulation (R 797-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crawford Rd. — Land Reutilization Program — Terrence Thompkins and Veora
Croft-Thompkins (O 422-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Olive Court — Land Reutilization Program — Melanie Shounnette Powell Brazil
(O 421-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
RiteAid Marathon 28th & 10K — permit — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (O 785-05) .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 744
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 744
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 743

Ward 08
Brady, Councilwoman Brady — congratulation (R 797-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
RiteAid Marathon 28th & 10K — permit — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (O 785-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 743
Ward 09
Brady, Councilwoman Brady — congratulation (R 797-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Ward 10
Brady, Councilwoman Brady — congratulation (R 797-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Northeast Neighborhood Development Corporation — promote neighborhood stability and
sustainability (O 726-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 761
Ward 11
Brady, Councilwoman Brady — congratulation (R 797-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Nottingham Water Works Facility — indoor and outdoor improvements (O 2295-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 754
Waterloo Community Entertainment District — establish (O 294-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 756
Ward 12
American Sokol Organization — congratulation (R 802-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brady, Councilwoman Brady — congratulation (R 797-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 55th St. (west side) & E. 49th St. (east side) — Change the zoning
District and a ‘1’ Height District (O 784-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hinde Ave. (north) — changing the zoning — General Retail Business
District and a ‘2’ Height District (O 133-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

...................
...................
— RA2 Townhouse
...................
District, a ‘C’ Area
...................

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 729
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 754

Ward 13
Brady, Councilwoman Brady — congratulation (R 797-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Public Theater — youth to grow — Ward 6, 13, 17 NEF (O 727-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Blvd., 3207 — sublease property — improving and expanding Fairview Park
(O 766-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hamilton/Marquette Limited Partnership — economic development assistance — redevelop
property — 5401 Hamilton Ave. (O 420-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Place Apartments — 1004 Prospect Ave. — rehabilitation — amend Ord. No.
370-05 (O 771-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
RiteAid Marathon 28th & 10K — permit — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (O 785-05) . . . . . . . . . . .
Schultz, Connie — congratulation (R 800-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 761
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 724
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 744
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 727
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 743
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 714

Ward 14
Brady, Councilwoman Brady — congratulation (R 797-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Rowing Foundation — lease certain property (O 127-05) . . . . . .
Delgado Rodriguez, Jose A. — welcome (R 807-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
RiteAid Marathon 28th & 10K — permit — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (O
Roman Abreu, Jose R. — welcome (R 806-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
San Lorenzo Club — congratulation (R 801-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

773

.......
.......
.......
785-05)
.......
.......

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

714
744
714
743
714
714

The City Record

64

April 27, 2005

Ward 15
Brady, Councilwoman Brady — congratulation (R 797-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Cleveland Zoological Society — banner — Huntington Bank Twilight at the Zoo (O 728-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . 761
Fern Court Townhouse project — water main — utility work — Cleveland Housing Network
— deed of easement (O 758-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 721
Ward 16
Brady, Councilwoman Brady — congratulation (R 797-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Memphis Ave., 7210 — new — liquor permit (F 791-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
William Cullen Bryant Elementary School — Cleveland Landmark (O 240-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 756
Ward 17
Brady, Councilwoman Brady — congratulation (R 797-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Public Theater — youth to grow — Ward 6, 13, 17 NEF (O 727-05) . . . . . . . . . .
Delgado Rodriguez, Jose A. — welcome (R 807-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fenwick Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Stockyard Redevelopment Organization
RiteAid Marathon 28th & 10K — permit — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (O 785-05) . . . . . . . .
Roman Abreu, Jose R. — welcome (R 806-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 73rd St., 3224 — objection — liquor permit (R 729-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

...........
...........
...........
(O 474-05) .
...........
...........
...........

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

714
761
714
745
743
714
753

Ward 18
Brady, Councilwoman Brady — congratulation (R 797-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
RiteAid Marathon 28th & 10K — permit — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (O 785-05) . . . . . . . .
Thrush Park — ball diamond number one — change the name — Ralph J. Lukich Ball
(O 719-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 743
Diamond
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 761

Ward 19
Brady, Councilwoman Brady — congratulation (R 797-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Medical Building, The — Cleveland Landmarks (O 241-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Martin, Kathleen A. — condolence (R 794-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thrush Park — ball diamond number one — change the name — Ralph J. Lukich Ball Diamond
(O 719-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 117th St. (west) between Western Ave. & I-90 — change the zoning — General Retail
Business (O 592-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woost, Joan — congratulation (R 803-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . 714
. . . . . . . 756
. . . . . . . 714
. . . . . . . 761
. . . . . . . 760
. . . . . . . 714

Ward 20
Brady, Councilwoman Brady — congratulation (R 797-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Triskett Rd., 13951 — objection — liquor permit (R 786-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 743
Triskett Rd., 13951 — objection — liquor permit (R 786-05). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 743
Ward 21
Brady, Councilwoman Brady — congratulation (R 797-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
John Marshall High School — Cleveland Landmark (O 377-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 757
Martin, Kathleen A. — condolence (R 794-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Scale pits — clean and maintain — Ridge Road Scale House — Ridge Road Transfer Station
(O 470-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 745
Water Division
Nottingham Water Works Facility — indoor and outdoor improvements (O 2295-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 754
Welcome
Delgado Rodriguez, Jose A. (R 807-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Roman Abreu, Jose R. (R 806-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Zoning
E. 55th St. (west side) & E. 49th St. (east side) — Change the zoning — RA2 Townhouse
District and a ‘1’ Height District (O 784-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 729
Hinde Ave. (north) — changing the zoning — General Retail Business District, a ‘C’ Area
District and a ‘2’ Height District (O 133-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 754
W. 117th St. (west) between Western Ave. & I-90 — change the zoning — General Retail
Business (O 592-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 760

774

