The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

January the Eighth, Two Thousand and Fourteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Jeffrey D. Johnson
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Martin J. Sweeney
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Rules of Council
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
4
4
10
10
11
11
11
11
11
12
12
12

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zack Reed ..........................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Paul Bender, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview
Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President
_____________; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President _____________.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Jomarie Wasik, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member _____________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President _____________.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President _____________; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Giancarlo Calicchia, John Torres, Robert Vilkas, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President _____________; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Ed Wade – Courtroom 12A
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Chief Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 2014

Vol. 101

No. 5222

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY JANUARY 6, 2014
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2014-2017
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services Committee:
Cimperman
(CHAIR),
Mitchell
(VICE-CHAIR), Brady, Cleveland,
Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Properties Committee: K. Johnson
(CHAIR),
Sweeney
(VICECHAIR),
Brancatelli,
Cummins,
Dow, J. Johnson, Reed.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley (CHAIR), Cleveland (VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY.
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Cimperman, Cummins, Dow, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR),
Brady
(VICECHAIR),
Brancatelli,
Cummins,
Keane, Mitchell, Polensek.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Zone (VICE-CHAIR),
J.Johnson, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Sweeney.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone
(CHAIR),
Conwell
(VICECHAIR), Cimperman, Dow, K.Johnson, Keane, Polensek.
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Dow
(VICE-CHAIR), Conwell, J. Johnson,
K.Johnson, Reed, Sweeney.

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair

ELECTION OF
TEMPORARY CHAIR

Mayor's Appointments Committee:
Sweeney (CHAIR), Brady, Cleveland, Dow, Kelley.

Council Member Joe Cimperman
moved that Council Member Phyllis
E. Cleveland serve as Temporary
Chair for the purpose of organizing
the Council.
Council Member Kenneth
L.
Johnson
seconded
the
motion. Council Member TJ Dow
moved that nominations for Temporary Chair be closed.

Operations
Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR), Kelley, Keane, Mitchell,
Zone.
Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Keane, Pruitt.

Kelley
Cummins,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, January 6, 2014
The meeting of the Council was
called to order. Deputy Clerk Allan
Dreyer served as Clerk of Council
Pro Tempore.
Council
Members-Elect
present:
Dona Brady, Anthony Brancatelli,
Joe Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland, Kevin Conwell, Brian J. Cummins, TJ Dow, Jeffrey D. Johnson,
Kenneth
L.
Johnson,
Martin
J.
Keane, Kevin J. Kelley, Mamie J.
Mitchell, Michael D. Polensek, Terrell H. Pruitt, Zack Reed, Martin J.
Sweeney and Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Government
Affairs Valarie J. McCall, Chief of
Education Monyka S. Price, Chief of
Communications Maureen Harper,
Chief
of
Sustainability
Jenita
McGowan, Chief of Public Affairs
Natoya Walker-Minor, and Directors
Langhenry, Dumas, Bender, Smith,
Butler, Flask, Cox, Rush, Rybka,
Southerington, Spronz, Nichols, Griffin, Brown, Fumich, and Ambroz.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the
invocation
was
offered
by
Father Douglas Brown, Mary Queen
of Peace Parish, Cleveland, Ohio
(Ward 13). Colors presented by the
Cleveland
Police
Honor
Guard.
Pledge of Allegiance. The National
Anthem and
“Lift Every Voice”
were
sung
by
Glenn
Burks,
EMT/Paramedic, City of Cleveland.
SWEARING-IN OF
COUNCIL MEMBERS
The Honorable Judge Ronald B.
Adrine, Presiding and Administrative Judge of the Cleveland Municipal Court, administered the oath of
office to the Council Members.

9

The Clerk of Council Pro Tempore
called the roll.
Council Member
Phyllis E. Cleveland received 17
votes. Those who voted for Council
Member Cleveland:
Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow,
J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Mitchell,
Polensek, Pruitt,
Reed, Sweeney, and Zone.
Council
Member
Cleveland
assumed
the
Chair.
ELECTION OF
COUNCIL PRESIDENT
Council Member Terrell H. Pruitt
made a motion to nominate Council
Member Kevin J. Kelley as President of Council.
Council Member
Martin
J.
Keane
seconded
the
motion.
Council Member Anthony
Brancatelli moved that the nominations
for
Council
President
be
closed.
The
Temporary
Chair
instructed Members of Council to
state the name of their candidate for
President of Council when responding to the roll call.
The Clerk of Council Pro Tempore
called the roll.
Council Member
Kevin J. Kelley received 17 votes.
Those who voted for Council Member Kelley were: Council Members
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cimperman,
Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow,
J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Sweeney and Zone.
The Honorable Judge Ronald B.
Adrine, Presiding and Administrative Judge of the Cleveland Municipal Court, administered the oath of
office to Council Member Kevin J.
Kelley, the newly elected President
of Council.
Council President Kelley assumed the Chair, thanked the
Council Members for giving him the
opportunity to serve as President of
Council, and made remarks.
ELECTION OF CITY CLERK,
CLERK OF COUNCIL
Council Member Mamie J. Mitchell
made a motion to nominate Patricia
J. Britt as City Clerk, Clerk of Coun-

The City Record

4
cil.
Council Member Phyllis E.
Cleveland
seconded
the
motion.
Council Member Matt Zone moved
that the nominations for City Clerk,
Clerk of Council be closed. Council
President
Kelley
instructed
the
Members of Council to state the
name of their candidate for City
Clerk,
Clerk
of
Council
when
responding to the roll call.
The Clerk of Council Pro Tempore
called the roll.
Patricia J. Britt
received 17 votes. Those voting for
Patricia J. Britt were: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow,
J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Sweeney, and Zone.
The Honorable Judge Ronald B.
Adrine, Presiding and Administrative Judge of the Cleveland Municipal Court, administered the oath of
office to Patricia J. Britt, the newly
elected City Clerk, Clerk of Council.
Council Clerk Britt thanked the
Council Members for giving her the
opportunity to continue to serve as
City Clerk, Clerk of Council.
MOTION
Council Member Terrell H. Pruitt
moved that the Rules of Council for
the 2014-2017 Council term be adopted. Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland seconded the motion.
Without
objection, the motion was approved.
The Rules of Council for the 20142017 Council term were adopted.
OATHS OF OFFICE
File No. 1-14.
Members of Cleveland City Council, for 2014-2017 term. Received.
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

Terrell H. Pruitt
Zack Reed
Joe Cimperman
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Mamie J. Mitchell
TJ Dow
Michael D. Polensek
Kevin Conwell
Jeffrey D. Johnson
Dona Brady
Anthony Brancatelli
Kevin J. Kelley
Brian J. Cummins
Matthew Zone
Martin J. Sweeney
Martin J. Keane

File No. 2-14.
Kevin J. Kelley, President of
Cleveland City Council. Received.
File No. 3-14.
Patricia J. Britt, City Clerk, Clerk
of Council. Received.
RULES OF COUNCIL
File No. 4-14.
Rules of Council, adopted January
6, 2014, for 2014-2017 term of Council. Received.
Council President Kelley called on
each newly elected Council Member
for individual remarks.

MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:48 p.m. to meet on Monday, January 13, 2014, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

RULES OF COUNCIL

Rules of Order
Governing the Council of the
City of Cleveland
2014-2017
[approved January 6, 2014]
The following rules of order shall
govern the procedures of the City
Council and the conduct of its members.
I. MEETINGS: PLACE, TIME OF
CONVENING, QUORUM, ORDER
OF BUSINESS

Rule 1. Meetings — Place. All
meetings of the Council shall be
held in the Council Chamber in the
City Hall, unless otherwise ordered
by the Council.
Rule 2. Meetings — Public. All
meetings of the Council or committees thereof shall be public, and
upon request of any citizen desiring
to be heard on any matter, then
under consideration by the Council,
the Council may, on motion, resolve
itself into a Committee of the Whole
and hear such citizen at such time
and for such period as Council may
determine. Persons desiring to be
heard by any committee of Council
on any matter then under consideration may, by consent of such committee, be given an opportunity to
be heard thereon. All Rules of Council minutes and records of the Council shall be open to the public at all
reasonable times.
Rule 3. Regular Meetings. After
the Council has been organized pursuant to Section 28 of the Charter,
regular meetings of the Council
shall be held in the Council Chamber every Monday evening at 7:00
o’clock
P.M.,
unless
otherwise
ordered by motion, resolution or
ordinance. Whenever the regular
meeting falls on a legal holiday or
a special election day — or the day
preceding a legal holiday or primary or other election day, the meeting shall be held on a day to be
fixed by the Council.
Rule 4. Summer Schedule. During
the months of July and August, the
Council shall be on summer schedule and shall meet at such times as

10

January 8, 2014
shall be set forth in the resolution
of Council establishing such schedule.
Rule 5. Special Meetings. Special
meetings may be called at any time
by the Mayor, the President of Council, or any five members upon at
least twelve (12) hours written
notice to each member of the Council served personally on each member or left at his usual place of residence; provided, however, that no
such notice need be served on any
Councilmember present at a meeting
of Council at which the President of
Council may give oral notice of the
time and purpose of a special meeting. Any such notice shall state the
subjects to be considered at the
meeting, and no other subjects shall
be there considered.
Rule 6. Quorum; Professionalism.
A majority of all the members elected to Council shall be a quorum to
do business, but a less number may
adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of absent members in the manner and under such
penalties as shall be prescribed by
these rules. All members shall conduct themselves professionally and
shall attend all official meetings of
Council in appropriate professional
attire.
Rule 7. Order of Business. The
business of all regular meetings of
the Council shall be transacted in
the following order, unless the Council by a two-thirds vote, shall suspend the rules and change the order.
1. Roll call of members.
2. Prayer.
3. Pledge of Allegiance.
4. Disposal of the journal of the
preceding meeting.
5. Reports and communications
from the Mayor.
6. Reports and communications
from departments, commissions and
other public officers.
7. Other communications, petitions
and memorials.
8. Reports of standing committees.
9. Reports of special committees.
10. Introduction of ordinances and
resolutions.
11. Second reading of ordinances
and resolutions.
12. Third reading of ordinances
and resolutions.
13. Reading and passage of emergency ordinances and resolutions.
14. Miscellaneous business shall
be permitted at the discretion of the
chair.
15. Report of the clerk with reference to absence of members.
16. Adjournment.
The presiding officer may, at any
time without objection of the members of Council, permit a member to
introduce an ordinance, resolution or
motion out of the regular order provided, however, if an objection is
made, a two-thirds vote of all members elected to Council shall be
required to permit such introduction
out of the regular order.
Rule 8. The Calendar. It shall be
the duty of the Clerk to have set
aside conspicuously in The City
Record a portion to be titled “The
Calendar. The following measures
will be on their passage at the next
meeting.” Under this title the Clerk

January 8, 2014

The City Record

shall arrange, and have printed in
consecutive order, by title all ordinances and resolutions which are on
for passage at the next meeting of
Council. In the event that any such
ordinances or resolutions have been
amended, the full text of the operative sections of such ordinance or
resolution, as amended, shall be published in addition to the title thereof. When action upon any measure
appearing upon the Calendar is postponed to a day certain, such measure shall be considered on said day
to which postponed whether or not
it appears upon the Calendar of said
day.

Rule 11-1. Roll Call upon Election
of President, and Filling Vacancies
in the Membership of Council. Upon
the roll call for the election of President of Council, Clerk of Council, or
for filling any vacancy in the membership of Council, each member
shall respond by stating the name
of the candidate of his choice eligible for such office or appointment,
which
candidate
shall
not
be
required to be a person duly nominated and whose nomination has
been duly seconded, provided, however, that no member shall be
excused from voting hereon except
by unanimous consent.

II. OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
OF COUNCIL

Rule 12. The City Clerk. The
Council shall choose a Clerk and
such other officers and employees
as may be deemed necessary and fix
their compensation. The Clerk shall
keep the record of the Council, and
the Clerk shall be the editor of The
City Record. The Clerk shall keep a
proper file of all papers and documents which are a part of the transactions of the Council, of meetings
of committees and all orders of the
Council,
and
shall
make
such
records available to the public. The
Clerk shall be secretary to all committees, but may assign an assistant
as secretary to any committee.
When directed by any committee the
Clerk shall cause to be kept minutes
of each meeting of such committee
that shall be kept in record form
and be made available for public
inspection. The record of committee
meetings may be kept in the form
of loose sheet records and need not
be printed in The City Record nor
copied in any other book, except
that the Clerk shall cause to be
printed in The City Record attendance roll calls of committee meetings. In addition, the Clerk shall
report to Council the absence of
members from Council meetings and
shall perform such other and further
duties as may from time to time by
Charter, statute or ordinance be
required of the Clerk.

Rule 9. Presiding Officer. The
President of Council, and in the
President’s absence the President of
Council pro tempore, shall preside
over the meetings of the Council. In
the absence of the President of
Council, the Majority Leader shall
serve as the President of Council
pro tempore; in the absence of both
the President of Council and the
Majority Leader, the Majority Whip
shall serve as the President of Council pro tempore. In the absence of
the President of Council, the Majority Leader and the Majority Whip,
the City Clerk shall call the Council to order; and if, after the roll call
is called a quorum shall be present,
the Council shall choose one of its
members President of Council pro
tempore. The President of Council
pro tempore shall preside until the
President of Council appears, but in
no event beyond such meeting, and
shall discharge all the duties and be
clothed with all the powers of the
President of Council as such presiding officer during the President of
Council’s absence. The Presiding
Officer shall call all meetings of the
Council to order at the hour appointed and shall proceed with the order
of business. If a quorum be present,
the Presiding Officer shall give the
members an opportunity for correcting the journal of the previous meeting, a copy of which shall be placed
on the desk of each member of the
Council. In the absence of any objections or corrections, the minutes
shall stand approved. The Presiding
Officer shall preserve order and
decorum, prevent personalities or
the impugning of members’ motives,
confine members in debate to the
question
under
discussion,
shall
decide all points of order subject to
an appeal to the Council, and shall
appoint all standing committees and
such select committees as may be
authorized by Council from time to
time, except in those cases where
such
authorizing
the
resolution
select committees specifically names
the membership thereof.
Rule 10. Members Presiding. The
President of the Council during any
meeting thereof may name any
member to perform the duties of the
chair; but such substitution shall not
extend beyond such meeting.
Rule 11. The Vote Necessary for
Election of President and Clerk. No
candidate for President or Clerk of
Council shall be declared elected
unless the candidate shall have
received a majority vote of all members elected to Council.

Rule 12-1. Committee on Council
Operations.
Not later than the fourth meeting
of the Council after its organization,
President
of
Council
shall
the
appoint four (4) members to a Committee on Council Operations. In
addition to the appointed members,
the President of Council shall also
be member of the committee. The
committee shall work in conjunction
with the Clerk to oversee the personnel and operations of Council, as
well as any policies and procedures
that impact the operations of Council.
Rule 12-2. The City Record. The
City Clerk, as editor of The City
Record, shall see that the following
rules are observed in the preparation and introduction of ordinances
and resolutions and in the editing
and printing of The City Record.
(a) The title of all ordinances and
resolutions shall be confined to a
brief statement of the subject matter of the bill and shall be printed
in bold face type.
(b) Preambles or “whereasas” in
ordinances and resolutions shall be
restricted to one emergency pream-

11

5
ble required by the Charter, except
where a whereas is an essential
part of the ordinance or resolution.
(c) Ordinances of a general or
permanent nature shall, in their
preparation, be divided into short
sections, wherever practicable, in
order to permit amendments being
made without printing so much of
the original ordinance.
(d) The practice of introducing
resolutions of condolence and congratulatory
resolutions
shall
be
recorded by number and reserved
for cases of death of outstanding citizens or occasion of great civic
importance. In lieu of such resolution of condolence the Clerk shall
have prepared a suitable memorial
which shall be sent to the relatives
of the deceased and The City Record
shall contain the request of the
member of Council for such memorial and the fact that such memorial
has been sent.
(e) The minutes and proceedings
of administrative boards shall be
prepared in abstract form and be
printed in six (6)-point type in The
City Record.
(f) Once each year, there shall be
prepared for distribution or printed
in The City Record a cumulative
subject index covering the proceedings of the Council.
Rule 13. Sergeant-at-Arms. The
Council shall appoint a Sergeant-atArms who shall be in attendance at
all
meetings
of
Council.
The
Sergeant-at-Arms, under the direction of the presiding officer, shall
preserve order in the Council Chamber and adjoining rooms, and in the
manner to be prescribed by ordinance shall compel the attendance
of absent members.
III. COMMITTEES OF COUNCIL

Rule 14. Standing Committees. Not
later than the fourth meeting of the
Council after its organization, the
President of Council shall appoint
one (1) standing committee of nine
(9) members and seven (7) standing
committees of seven (7) members
each. The first named member shall
be chair and the second named shall
be vice-chair. All committee appointments shall be made under this
Rule, including that of chair and
vice-chair. The vice-chair shall preside until the chair appears and
shall discharge all the duties and be
clothed with all the powers of the
chair during the chair’s absence. In
the absence of the chair and the
vice-chair and a quorum being present, a temporary chair shall be
selected by a majority vote of the
members present who shall preside
until the chair or vice-chair appears
and the temporary chair shall discharge all the duties and be clothed
with all the powers of the chair during the chair’s absence.
A. The nine member committee
and its subject matter is as follows:
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE shall
research, investigate, develop and
implement public policy and advocate for the financial stability and
operations of the City of Cleveland.

6
The Committee on Finance shall
oversee the Departments of Finance
and Law, and any processes and
policies that impact the City’s financial stability and operations. The
Finance Committee shall: review all
ordinances, resolutions and other
matters
pertaining
to
finances,
indebtedness,
appropriations,
the
payment of monies not provided for
by previous legislation, taxation, the
standardization
of
salaries
and
wages, union agreements, civil service, the pensioning of employees
and the sale, lease or purchase of
real estate; review and approve all
city financial expenditures and budgetary items along with all financial matters that pertain to the city;
review changes to the Codified Ordinances; review legislation regarding
city annexations, redistricting, and
charter amendments; review all matters relating to courts; review ordinances relating to licenses and
those imposing fines, penalties, forfeitures or imprisonment, printing
and advertising.
B. The seven member committees
and the subject matters that shall
be referred to them are as follows:
a. COMMITTEE ON UTILITIES
shall
research,
investigate
and
develop public policy and advocate
for public utilities and information
technology for the City.
The Committee on Public Utilities
shall oversee the operations of the
Department of Public Utilities and
the services that it provides, as well
as any legislation, operations and
policies that impact utilities and
their access and use; the Committee
shall ensure that all utility services
are being provided at a reasonable
cost and shall examine any increase
in service fees and rates when necessary. The Public Utilities Committee shall review the financial stability and operation of the city’s
public utility enterprise funds and
shall review how Information Technology is integrated into daily operations of the City.
b. COMMITTEE ON DEVELOPMENT, PLANNING AND SUSTAINABILITY shall research, investigate, and develop public policy and
advocate for residential and commercial development and land use
planning and sustainability for the
City.
The Committee on Development,
Planning and Sustainability shall be
referred all ordinances, resolutions
and other matters pertaining to the
Departments of Economic Development,
Community
Development,
Building and Housing and the City
Planning Commission, and shall
oversee these departments as well
as any operations and policies that
impact
planning,
sustainability,
development, housing and commercial activities in the City and the
greater Cleveland region. The Committee shall oversee all residential,
retail, commercial and industrial
development
and
redevelopment
activities in the City and ensure
that land use planning and zoning
utilize the highest and best uses of
the City.
c.
COMMITTEE
ON
HEALTH
shall
research,
investigate
and

The City Record
develop public policy and advocate
for a healthy environment for the
City and its residents.
The Committee on Public Health
shall be referred all legislation and
all other matters pertaining to the
Departments of Public Health and
Aging. The Committee shall review
any operations and policies that
impact the health of the City’s residents, workers and visitors; and
shall oversee fiscal expenditures
that promote health initiatives.
d. COMMITTEE ON SAFETY shall
research, investigate and develop
public policy and advocate for a
safe Cleveland.
The Committee on Public Safety
shall oversee the Department of
Public Safety, as well as all operations and policies that impact the
safety of the City of Cleveland’s residents, workers and visitors, and
shall oversee all fiscal expenditures
for the Department of Public Safety. The Committee also shall review
all matters pertaining to the Community Relations Board
e.
COMMITTEE
ON
TRANSPORTATION shall research, investigate and develop public policy and
advocate for world-class transportation systems for the City.
The Committee on Transportation
is responsible for overseeing the
Department of Port Control and any
legislation, operations and policies
that impact transportation in Cleveland, including Greater Cleveland’s
public transportation, bus, limousine
and taxicab operations, waterways
and infrastructure, and their impact
on commerce. The Committee shall
oversee all matters directly relating
to all city-owned airports, aviation
services and port activities, including harbors, rivers and lakes as
these pertain to travel and port commerce. The Committee shall review
the financial stability and operation
of the City‘s transportation enterprise funds, examine regional transportation policies of area-wide agencies such as GCRTA and NOACA
and how they impact the City; and
oversee planning and development
efforts for multi-modal transportation operations, including rail and
bikeways.
f. COMMITTEE ON MUNICIPAL
SERVICES AND PROPERTY shall
research, investigate and develop
public policy and advocate for highquality municipal services and properties for the city.
The Committee on Municipal Services and Property shall be referred
all legislation and other matters pertaining to the Department of Public
Works and the Office of Capital Projects, and shall oversee any operations
and
policies
that
impact
municipal services and properties;
shall oversee those matters that pertain
to
public
infrastructure
roads,
including
improvements,
bridges and sidewalk improvements;
recreation, parks and public green
space; shall oversee waste management and recycling; examine best
public
improvement
practices;
review the use of municipal bond
funds for capital improvement projects; and shall monitor and evalu-

12

January 8, 2014
ate the quality of work done on public improvement projects.
g.
COMMITTEE
ON
WORKFORCE & COMMUNITY BENEFITS
investigate
and
shall
research,
develop public policy and advocate
for equity, empowerment and jobs
for the City and its residents.
The Committee on Workforce and
Community Benefits shall oversee
the Office of Equal Opportunity and
all operations and policies that
impact the City’s ability to promote
workforce development and community benefits for City residents. The
Committee shall: ensure that the
City promotes empowerment of citizens through education, training,
job creation and development; work
with area businesses to create a
working environment of justice and
equity; monitor compliance with
community
benefits,
agreements,
policies and procedures; help develop and keep a workforce that fulfills the needs of employers; review
education systems and curricula for
Cleveland’s citizens of all ages and
levels and advocate reforms.
Rule 14-1. Approval of Council of
Appointments by Mayor. Whenever
the approval of Council is required
for appointments by the Mayor, the
President of Council, upon request
of the Mayor for approval of any
appointment, shall forthwith appoint
a select committee of five (5) members to which shall be referred the
name of each person whose appointment is submitted for approval of
Council. The select committee shall
report to Council its recommendation thereon. Thereupon Council, as
part of the appropriate order of business, shall proceed to vote upon the
approval of each appointment; the
question being “Shall the Council
approve the appointment by the
Mayor?” If a majority of all the
members elected to Council vote
aye, the Council shall approve such
appointment.
Rule 14-2. Member Pro Tempore.
In the event of the absence of a
member from a published scheduled
committee, the Council President,
upon the request of the chair of the
committee, may appoint a Councilmember to serve as a member pro
tempore for purposes of that committee meeting. The appointment by
the Council President of the member
to that committee shall expire upon
completion of that committee meeting. Upon appointing a member pro
tempore, the Council President shall
notify the members of Council of the
appointment and shall cause such
appointment to be reflected in The
City Record.
Rule 14-3. Removal of Members
from Committees. The President of
Council, may for cause at any time,
remove and replace any member or
members of any standing committee
established under Rule 14 or from
any special committee or committees.
Rule 15. Committee Meetings. A
majority of the members of a committee shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business. Each
committee shall hold its regular
meetings at the time and place fixed
in the schedule, as prepared by the

January 8, 2014
President of Council and Clerk of
Council in conference with the
chairs of the several committees.
Rule 15-1. Meeting. A committee
meeting schedule shall be published
by the Clerk. Should the chair of a
committee find it necessary to hold
the meeting at another time and
place, the chair shall cause notice
thereof to be given and posted at
least twenty-four (24) hours before
the new time fixed for the meeting.
All committee meetings shall be
open, and a record of the attendance
of members of the committee and
the action taken there, shall be kept
by the secretary of the committee in
a record provided for that purpose.
Such record shall be kept on file
with the Clerk of Council and open
to public inspection as other public
records. No legislation shall be
amended while in committee and it
shall be the duty of the committee
recommend
to
Council
the
to
approval, disapproval or amendment
of any legislation pending before
the committee. A majority of the
members of a committee shall be
necessary for the recommendation
of approval, disapproval or amendment of any legislation pending
before
a
committee.
All
other
motions shall require only a majority vote of the members of committee present.
Rule
15-2.
Councilmember
Absences. Each absence of a committee member, not authorized by the
chair for good cause, or the absence
of the chair, not authorized by the
President of Council for good cause,
shall be deemed a violation of the
Rules of Council under Section 29 of
the Charter, punishable by a fine of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
each unauthorized absence. For the
purpose of this Subsection 15(b), but
not for purposes of voting on recommendations to legislation, a committee member or chair thereof shall
also be deemed absent if a committee member or chair reports to the
committee meeting later than fifteen (15) minutes after the scheduled time for the commencement of
said meeting or when after the commencement of said meeting leaves
the meeting, except in case of necessity or emergency, without the
authority of the chair or acting
chair. Absence of a member of a
committee from three (3) consecutive meetings, unless authorized by
the chair of such committee, may
upon the recommendation of such
committee, cause the removal of
such member from such committee
by the President of Council.
Rule 15-3. Committee Room Seating. Seats at the table in the committee room shall be reserved for
members of the committee, the
Mayor and administrative officials
having business before the committee, members of Council not members
of
the
committee,
persons
specifically invited by the chair or
by
a
vote
of
the
committee,
reporters, representatives of civic
organizations
and
of
organized
labor, and it shall be the duty of the
Clerk of committees to see to it that
the foregoing precedence of seating
is strictly followed.
Rule 15-4. Rules of Committees.
Except in case of obvious inconsis-

The City Record
tency or inapplicability, committee
hearings shall be governed by the
rules applicable to Council proceedings.
Rule 16. Reports. No ordinance,
resolution, petition, or other matters
referred to a committee for action
shall be approved or disapproved
and reported out until it shall have
first been considered at a committee
meeting regularly called as provided for herein and no committee shall
consider or hold a hearing on any
proposed legislation until it has
been introduced in Council and
referred to the committee. The chair,
upon motion of any member that
shall not require a second, shall put
the question of the recommendation
of approval or of approval when
amended. If a majority of the members of the committee vote affirmatively, such legislation shall be
reported forthwith to Council as
“Recommended for Passage”, but if
a majority of the members of the
committee vote negatively on such
question, such legislation shall be
reported forthwith to Council as a
recommendation of adversal of such
legislation. The vote on all matters
before
the
committee
shall
be
recorded in the minutes of the committee meeting. When a majority of
a committee has reported, recommending or not recommending the
passage, adoption or approval of the
legislation under consideration, the
minority may present a minority
report. All such reports shall be in
writing and signed by the members
of the committee voting in favor of
or against the report.
Rule 17. Committee of the Whole.
Upon declaration by the Council
President without objection or by
motion of a Councilmember supported by a majority vote of Council, the
Council shall resolve itself into a
Committee of the Whole for the purpose of hearing from a person who
is not a member of the Council, or
for the purpose of considering business generally, or for the purpose
stated in the motion. When the
Council shall decide to go into Committee of the Whole, the regular
officers shall continue to serve,
without objection, otherwise the
Council shall appoint a Chair to preside, and the presiding officer of the
Council shall leave the chair. The
rules of Council, in so far as practicable, shall be observed in the
Committee of the Whole; however, a
roll call of ayes and nays shall not
be in order.
Rule 17-1. Joint Committee. When
it is desired that legislation shall be
considered by two or more standing
committees jointly, a reference may
be made by the President of Council to a joint committee comprised
of the membership of said standing
committees, which shall operate as
a single committee. A quorum of a
joint committee shall consist of a
majority of the members thereof,
counting membership in each committee separately, so that a member
of each or two or more committees
constituting such joint committee
shall be counted once for each committee on which he/she is a member.
A
majority
vote,
similarly
counted, shall be required for action
by such joint committee. The President of Council shall determine the

13

7
chair of the joint committee from
the chair of the standing committees
that make up the joint committee.
Rule 17-2. Subcommittee. When
determined to be in furtherance of
the legislative process, the chair of
a standing committee and the President of Council may designate certain members of said standing committee to form a subcommittee thereof for the purpose of examining
such matters as are identified by
the chair and President at the time
the subcommittee is formed. At the
completion of its work, the subcommittee shall report its findings to
the entire standing committee or, in
the discretion of the President of
Council, the entire Council.
IV. DUTIES, PRIVILEGES AND
DECORUM OF MEMBERS

Rule 18. Roll Call of Council.
Every member shall be seated at the
time of roll call, otherwise the member shall not be recorded as present
except upon order of Council. The
Clerk shall publish in The City
Record the names of the members
present and absent.
Rule 19. Duty to Vote. Every member present shall vote on all questions upon the call of the yeas, and
nays, unless excused by the unanimous consent of the Council; except
that no member shall vote on any
question in which they are financially interested or which in any
way involves personal or private
rights. Any member present, unless
so excused, or excepted as above,
who refuses to vote upon any question relating to the city government,
upon which the member may vote,
when the yeas and nays are being
taken shall be guilty of contempt of
the Council, and may, for such contempt, be censured by a majority
vote of the Council or may be
expelled from the Council by a vote
of two-thirds of all the members of
the Council pursuant to Section 29
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland.
Rule 20. Yeas and Nays. On the
passage of every ordinance or resolution, and on the appointment of
every officer, the vote shall be
taken by yeas and nays, entered in
full upon the records and published
in the official journal. On any other
question, the yeas and nays shall be
entered upon the record on the
request of any member. Upon the
call of the yeas and nays, the Clerk
shall call the names of members
alphabetically and record the vote.
Rule 21. Change of Vote. Before
the announcement of the vote on
any question, the Clerk shall read
the vote of each member so taken
upon the demand of any member, at
which time any member on account
of error or for any other reason may
change his/her vote; but no member
shall be permitted to change his/her
vote as recorded after the roll call
has been verified and the result
declared.
Rule 22. Recording of Vote of
Absent Member. Any member, having been unavoidably absent, may
at the next meeting be permitted to
have their vote recorded upon any
question acted upon during such

The City Record

8
absence; provided such vote shall
not change the result; and provided
further that such member shall not
be entitled to move a reconsideration of the question to be voted
upon.
Rule 23. Right of Floor. When any
member is about to address the
Council the member shall rise and
respectfully address the presiding
officer, and when recognized by the
chair shall confine any comments to
the question under debate, avoid
and
refrain
from
personalities
impugning the motives of any other
member’s argument or vote. When
two or more members ask recognition at the same time, the presiding
officer shall name the member who
is first to speak and the exercise of
such discretion by the presiding officer shall not be subject to appeal
under Rule 26.
Rule
24.
Time
Limitation
of
Speaking.
No
member
shall
be
allowed to speak for a longer time
than 4 minutes at any one time
without the permission of Council.
No member shall speak more than
once on the same legislation until
every other member desiring to
speak on that legislation shall have
had an opportunity to do so. Neither
the Mayor nor any director may
speak longer than 4 minutes upon
the same motion, ordinance or question without the consent of Council.
Rule 25. Members Called to Order.
If any member in speaking or otherwise transgresses the rules of the
Council, the President shall call the
offending member to order. The
member so called to order shall
immediately take his seat unless
permitted
by
the
President
to
explain. Any member may, by raising the point of order, call the attention of the President to such transgression. The President, without
debate, shall decide the point of
order. Every such decision of the
President shall be subject to appeal
to the Council upon motion with a
second.
Rule 26. Right of Appeal. Any
member may appeal to the Council
from a ruling of the presiding officer. The member making the appeal
may briefly state the reason for the
same, and the presiding officer may
briefly explain the ruling; but there
shall be no debate on the appeal and
no other member shall participate in
the discussion. The presiding officer
shall then put the question, “Shall
the decision of the chair be sustained?” If a majority of the members present vote aye, the ruling of
the chair is sustained; otherwise it
is overruled.
Rule 27. Member May Read from
Books, etc. Any member while discussing a question, may read from
books, papers or documents any
matter pertinent to the subject
under consideration without asking
leave; provided, however, that such
reading shall be subject to and
included within the time limitation
prescribed in Rule 24.
Rule 28. Division of Question. If
the question contains two or more
divisible propositions, the presiding
officer may, and upon request of a
member, shall divide the same; but

a motion to strike out a provision
and insert a substitute is not divisible.
Rule 29. Personal Privilege. Any
member may rise to explain a matter personal to the member, and on
stating that it is a matter of personal privilege, the member shall be
recognized by the President, but
shall not discuss a question or issue
in such explanation. Such explanation shall not consume more than 2
minutes of time unless extended by
consent of the Council. Matters of
personal privilege shall yield only
to a motion to recess or adjourn.
Rule 30. No Person, Other Than
the Clerk and the Clerk’s Assistants,
Shall Be Permitted at the Clerk’s
Desk While the Yeas and Nays are
Being Taken. No person, other than
the Clerk and the Clerk’s assistants,
shall be permitted at the Clerk’s
desk while the yeas and nays are
being taken.
V. MOTIONS

Rule
31.
Purpose
and
Form.
Motions shall be used only to expedite the orderly transaction at the
business of Council and shall not be
substituted for resolutions or ordinances. The form of all motions
shall be “I move that” followed by
the substance of the motion. No second shall be required for any motion
except as specifically provided for
in a rule, but upon demand of any
member any motion shall be withdrawn by the maker before it has
been amended or voted upon. When
a motion is made the presiding officer shall state it before any debate
shall be in order. All motions that
have been entertained by the President of Council shall be entered
upon the minutes.
Rule 32. Precedence of Motions.
When a question is before the Council no motion shall be entertained
except the following:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

To adjourn.
To fix the hour of adjournment.
For the previous question.
To lay on the table.
To postpone to a day certain.
To postpone indefinitely.
To refer to a committee.
To amend.

These motions shall have precedence in the order indicated. The
motion to adjourn and the motion
for the previous question, shall be
put to a vote without debate; the
motion to fix the hour of adjournment shall be debatable only as to
the time of such adjournment; and
all other motions shall be debatable.
Rule 33. The Previous Question.
The motion for the previous question shall require a majority vote of
all members elected to Council; shall
be considered only once; may be
renewed after intervening business;
shall take precedence over all debatable questions and shall be in order
to prevent amendment of undebatable questions. When the previous
question is moved and seconded by
one other member, it shall be put as
follows: “Shall the main question be
now put?” There shall be no further
amendment or debate but pending
amendments shall be put in their

14

January 8, 2014
order before the main question. If
the question, “Shall the main question be now put?” be decided in the
negative, the main question remains
before the Council.
Rule 34. Motion to Lay on the
Table. The motion to lay on the
table shall dispose finally of the legislation against which it is invoked
but a motion to lay a pending
amendment to an ordinance or resolution on the table shall not carry
the ordinance or resolution with it.
A motion to lay on the table shall
require a majority vote of all members elected to Council.
Rule 35. Motion to Postpone to a
Day Certain. A motion to postpone
to a day certain shall require a
majority vote of the members present; shall be subject to reconsideration; may be renewed after intervening business; shall be debatable
as to the propriety of the postponement but not upon the merits of the
legislation; and may be amended by
changing the date. Upon the arrival
of the date to which postponed the
legislation shall be considered in
the regular order of business of that
day.
Rule 36. Motion to Postpone Indefinitely. The motion to postpone
indefinitely shall have the same
effect as motion to lay on the table,
and shall require a majority vote of
all members elected to Council.
Motion to postpone indefinitely shall
not be reconsidered; shall be debatable and shall open the legislation
to debate; may be renewed after
intervening business and may not
be amended or laid on the table, and
shall be subject to previous question.
Rule 37. Reconsideration. After
the decision of any question, any
member who voted with the majority may move a reconsideration of
any action at the same or the next
succeeding meeting, provided, however, that a resolution authorizing
or relating to any contract may be
reconsidered at any time before the
final execution thereof. A motion to
reconsider shall require a majority
vote of all the members elected to
Council. After a motion for reconsideration has once been acted upon,
no other motion for a reconsideration thereof shall be made without
unanimous consent of the members
present.
VI. ORDINANCES AND
RESOLUTIONS

Note: “The adoption of a resolution is the proper procedure for an
informal enactment providing for
the disposition of a particular item
of business, while the passage of an
ordinance is the proper procedure
for the enactment of a regulation of
a general or permanent nature.” (19
R.C. L. 895; 46 C.J. 519; 29 O.A. 386).
Rule 38. Introduction. Ordinances
and resolutions shall be introduced
in the Council only in printed or
written form, with the name of the
member
introducing
the
same
endorsed thereon. No ordinance or
resolution affecting the zoning regulations or the construction of public improvements within a particular
ward shall be introduced in Council

January 8, 2014
in the name of the member of Council from such ward except with that
member’s written permission prior
to such introduction, and when the
member’s name shall be followed by
the
words
“By
departmental
request”, which shall be deemed not
to imply agreement with the purpose of such legislation by reason
of such sponsorship. Ordinances submitted by the initiative shall have
endorsed thereon “Submitted by Initiative Petition”.
Rule 38-1. Preparation of Legislation. In order that adequate time
may be given to the preparation of
legislation,
members
of
Council
shall present requests for legislation
to the Law Department not later
than 5:00 o’clock P.M. on the Friday
preceding the meeting at which
such legislation is to be introduced
for first reading, and not later than
5:00 o’clock P.M. of the Wednesday
preceding introduction of legislation
for passage under suspension of the
rules.
Rule 38-2. Request for Legislation.
All legislation shall have indicated
at the end thereof the date of preparation and the initials of the draftsman and typist; and all legislation
originating in administrative departments shall contain in addition
thereto the name of the head of the
department or division for whom
prepared and the name of the member of Council introducing such legislation shall be followed by the
words “By request” in parentheses.
Rule 38-3. Request for Legislation
for Passage Under Suspension of the
Rules. The Clerk of Council shall
not accept a request for legislation
for passage on introduction under
suspension of the rules unless furnished sufficient copies of such legislation to provide each member of
Council therewith, together with a
like number of copies of a statement
by the Director of the requesting
department setting forth the reasons
requiring
the
immediate
action
thereon. A request for legislation for
passage on introduction under suspension of the rules at the last meeting prior to the Summer recess of
Council or at the final annual meeting of Council shall not be accepted
by the Clerk of Council unless the
statement
bears
the
required
approval of the President of Council. To the extent that circumstances
permit all such legislation shall be
considered informally by at least
one committee of Council, to which
such legislation would otherwise be
referred.
Rule 39. Form of Ordinances. The
enacting clause of all ordinances
shall be “Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland.” except
those submitted by Initiative petition, which shall be “Be it ordained
by the people of the City of Cleveland.” All ordinances before introduction shall be in typewritten form,
with two additional copies, on the
forms to be provided by the City
Clerk. No ordinance or resolution or
section thereof shall be revised or
amended unless the new ordinance
or resolution contains the entire
ordinance or resolution, or section
revised or amended, and the original ordinance, resolution, section, or
sections
so
amended
shall
be
repealed.

The City Record
Rule 40. Emergency Ordinances. If
any emergency ordinance or resolution fails to receive a two-thirds
affirmative vote of all members
elected to Council, such measure
shall cease to be before the Council
as an emergency measure and shall
have the standing that a measure
would have had if it had not been
read as an emergency measure.
Rule 41. Reference to Committee.
All ordinances and resolutions shall
be read by title on the day when
introduced, unless such reading is
dispensed with by a two-thirds vote;
and unless otherwise ordered by the
Council shall be referred by the presiding officer to the appropriate
committee or committees, which reference shall be announced forthwith
by the Clerk. The committee or committees to which the legislation is
so referred shall, after due consideration and at least one public hearing, propose any amendments with
recommendations for approval or
disapproval. When so reported, such
ordinance or resolution shall, unless
otherwise ordered, be read a second
time and laid over until the next
meeting of the Council, when the
same shall be read a third time and
a vote taken thereon. The Council
shall act upon no ordinance or resolution except a resolution of condolence or one of an extreme emergency nature, until it has been
referred to and reported upon by a
committee or committees of Council.
Rule 41-1. Re-reference to Committee.
Any
pending
legislation
may, by a vote of a majority of the
members elected to Council or by
declaration of the Council President
without objection, be referred to any
committee
to
which
previously
referred under these rules, or to any
appropriate committee designated in
the
motion
to
re-refer.
When
referred back to the Council, such
legislation shall have the same
standing as it had at the time when
re-referred.

9
the legislation has been referred
with the consent of the Council
President.
Rule 43. Three Readings. No ordinance or resolution shall be passed
until it has been read on three separate days; unless the reading on
three separate days has been dispensed with by a two-thirds vote of
all members elected to Council. The
final reading shall be in full unless
a written or printed copy of the
measure shall have been furnished
to each member of the Council prior
to such reading. Copies of all first
reading ordinances and resolutions
to be introduced for passage and
adoption under suspension of the
rules and without reading on three
separate days shall be placed on the
members’ desks within the Council
Chambers prior to a vote being
taken on the ordinance or resolution. When it is desired to suspend
this and rule 41 in order to permit
the passage of legislation upon
introduction the question on the
motion for such suspension shall be
as follows: “Shall the Charter and
statutory provisions and rule 43
requiring reading on three separate
days and rule 41 requiring reference
to committees be dispensed with and
Ordinance No. ... (Resolution No. ...)
be placed on final passage?” If twothirds of all the members elected to
Council vote aye, the Charter, statutory and rule requirements requiring reading on three separate days
and reference to committees shall be
suspended. As an exception to the
foregoing, resolutions of condolence
and congratulatory resolutions shall
be read by title only and adopted
viva voce or by rising vote.
Rule 43-1. Copies Required for Suspension of Rule 43. No ordinance of
a general nature or imposing penalties which has not been referred to
a committee of Council, shall be
passed under suspension of the rules
unless a copy of such ordinance
shall have been placed on the desk
of each member prior to the passage
of such ordinance under suspension
of Rule 43.

Rule 42. Reference to More Than
One Committee. Whenever any pending matter is referred to more than
one committee for consideration and
report, said committee may consider
the same in joint session as a joint
committee, if the chairs of the committees concerned consent thereto.
The chair of the committee first
named shall preside at such joint
sessions, and each member of the
joint committee shall have one vote
for each committee of which he/she
is a member composing the joint
committee. A majority of the members of each of the separate committees shall constitute a quorum of
such committee and the vote shall
be taken by roll call of each of the
separate
committees
constituting
the joint committee. Its report shall
be made in the same manner and
under the same rules as reports are
made by standing committees.

Rule 44. Appropriation Ordinances.
Ordinances making appropriations
shall be confined to the subject of
appropriation. No money shall be
appropriated except by ordinance.
All ordinances for fixing a tax rate,
the appropriation of money, the
issuance of bonds, the transfer of
money to any fund, or the payment
of claims; and all resolutions and
ordinances whereby the city shall
become liable for the payment of
any money, shall be referred without debate to the finance committee
for consideration and report; unless
this requirement shall be suspended
by two-thirds of all the members
elected. The vote of each suspension
shall be taken by yeas and nays and
entered on the record.

Rule 42-1. Relieving Committees.
Any committee to which an ordinance
or
resolution
has
been
referred under Rule 41 or re-referred
under Rule 41-1, may be relieved of
further consideration of such legislation by a motion duly made and
adopted by a two-thirds vote of all
members elected to Council or by
the chair of the committee to which

Rule 45. Substitute Legislation.
Legislation dealing with the same
subject matter may be substituted
for any pending ordinance or resolution by a majority vote of all the
members elected to Council, upon
the recommendation of any committee to which such legislation has
been referred. Substitute legislation
shall be subject to all the provisions

15

The City Record

10
of the Charter and rules applying to
ordinances on first reading, and the
legislation for which such substitute
is offered shall be laid upon the
table as a final disposition thereof.
Before accepting for introduction
any
substitute
legislation,
the
author of the original legislation
shall be given notice thereof by the
Clerk of Council.
Rule 46. Ordinances Fixing Fines
and Penalties. All ordinances imposing fines, penalties, forfeiture or
imprisonment shall be referred to
the Committee on Legislation, and
the Director of Law shall be asked
to give an opinion thereon.
Rule 47. Amendments. It shall be
in order to amend an ordinance at
any time when not in the hands of
a committee; but if amended after
its second reading, it shall again be
read as the second reading thereof,
and laid over for further and final
action. A majority vote of all the
members elected to Council shall be
necessary for the adoption of an
amendment to any legislation pending before the Council.
Rule 48. Adoption. All ordinances
and resolutions shall require for
passage or adoption a majority vote
of all the members elected. The vote
on their adoption shall be taken by
yeas and nays and entered on the
records of the meeting except as
otherwise provided in these rules.
Rule 49. Signing Ordinances and
Resolutions. All ordinances passed
and resolutions adopted by Council
shall be signed by the President and
presented forthwith to the Mayor by
the Clerk.
Rule 50. Action on Mayor’s Veto.
When the Mayor refuses to sign an
ordinance or resolution or part
thereof and returns such ordinance
or resolution to the Council with
objections, pursuant to Section 37 of
the Charter, the Council shall after
the expiration of not less than one
week following the meeting at
which such vetoed ordinance or resolution is returned, proceed to reconsider the same. After the adoption
of the motion so to reconsider, the
question shall be stated as follows:
“Shall Ordinance No. (Resolution
No.) be passed (or adopted) notwithstanding the veto of the Mayor?
Those voting aye vote to override
the Mayor’s veto. Those voting nay
vote to sustain the Mayor’s veto.” If
two-thirds of all the members elected to Council vote aye, such ordinance or resolution vetoed by the
Mayor shall take effect without the
Mayor’s signature.
VII. ADMINISTRATIVE
OFFICERS

Rule 51. Attendance Required. The
Mayor and the directors of all
departments shall be required to
attend the regular and special meeting of Council and shall be provided with seats on the floor of the
Council. They shall be required, at
any such meeting, to answer such
questions relating to the affairs of
the
city
under
their
respective
supervision and control as may be
put to them by any member of the
Council.

Rule 52. Reports of City Officers.
All ordinances, resolutions and communications pertaining to matters
that come under the supervision and
control of the Mayor shall, in addition to being referred to the proper
committees, be also referred to such
respective
administrative
officers
for recommendation and report. Not
later than thirty (30) days after reference to the administrative officer
or officers as the case may be each
ordinance, resolution, or communication so referred shall be returned
to the Clerk of Council with the
endorsement of each such administrative officer’s approval or disapproval of such matter so referred. It
shall be the duty of the Clerk of
Council to enforce this rule rigidly.
The Clerk shall use all diligence in
seeing that departments to which
measures are referred return them
to the Clerk’s office within the time
fixed herein.
Rule 52-1. Mandatory Referral of
Legislation. Mandatory referral of
legislation under Section 76-3 of the
Charter shall be deemed to include
the following matters:
1. Zoning or other regulations of
land use.
2. Acquisition or lease of land for
public uses.
3. Sale or lease of publicly owned
lands.
4.
Vacation
or
dedication
of
streets or alleys.
5. Street widening or street extensions.
6. Permits for private uses of
streets or public property.
7. Determining to proceed with
public improvements.
8. Requests for studies or plan
preparation.
9. Bond issues for capital improvements.
10.Housing.
A request for an additional thirty
(30) day period for further consideration may be granted by the President of Council if the application
for such extension is submitted to
the President before the expiration
of the thirty (30) day period allowed
by Section 76-3 of the Charter. No
further extension of time shall be
allowed except upon motion of a
member of Council adopted by a
majority vote of all the members
present. Such request shall be filed
with the Clerk of Council.

January 8, 2014
VIII. COUNCIL CHAMBER
Rule 53. Use of Council Chamber.
The Council Chamber shall be used
only for meetings of the Council or
committees thereof, except where
the Council by vote authorizes its
use by persons other than city officials. The Clerk, with the written
approval of the President of Council, may permit other public officials
to use the Council Chamber on public business, when not in use by the
Council or committees.
Rule 54. Privileges of Floor. No
person except members or former
members of the Council, officers
named in the rules, reporters and
persons invited by the President of
Council or by vote of the Council
shall be admitted within the bar of
Council
chamber,
and
the
the
Sergeant-at-Arms shall cause this
rule to be rigidly enforced.
IX. RULES, SUSPENSION,
AMENDMENT AND OTHER
Rule 55. Suspension of Rules. Any
provision of these rules may be suspended at any meeting of the Council, by a majority vote of all the
members elected, except when a
greater number is required by law
or by the rules. The vote on any
such suspensions shall be taken by
yeas and nays and entered upon the
records.
Rule 56. Amending Rules. These
rules may be amended, or new rules
may be adopted by a majority vote
of all members elected to the Council, on the report of the committee
formed for such purpose.
Rule 57. Other Rules. Except as
herein otherwise provided, the proceedings of the Council shall be governed by the City Charter, the Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, and Robert’s Rules of
Order, and it shall be the duty of
the presiding officer to adhere to
and enforce such rules.

BOARD OF CONTROL

NO MEETING

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________

Rule 52-2. Mutilation of Legislation. No alteration, change, erasure
or mark shall be made upon any
piece of legislation by any person
except the Clerk of Council and then
only pursuant to an amendment
thereto made by Council pursuant to
Rule 47. Nothing shall be physically
attached to any piece of legislation
after introduction thereof except the
fiscal certificate required by Section
106 of the Charter nor shall any
endorsement appear upon any legislation except that of the head of the
department
or
office
to
which
referred or the person duly authorized by such head. Reports of subordinates to the heads of departments or other pertinent data or
reports may be filed with such legislation if referred to in the official
reports endorsed upon the back of
such piece of legislation.

16

General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commis-

The City Record

January 8, 2014
sion has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
TUESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2014
9:30 A.M.
Violation Notice
Calendar No. 13-263: 2267 East 83rd
Street (Ward 6)
Timothy Willis, owner, appeals
from a Notice of Violation issued on
November 5, 2013 by the Cleveland
Department of Building and Housing for failure to comply with Section 337.18(a) regarding maintenance of accessory off-street parking spaces, driveways and maneuvering area; and Section 349.13 that
not more than one commercial vehicle, weighing unloaded, not more
than one and a half tons may be
stored; and Section 337.23 that use of
premises to repair and/or paint
motor vehicles is prohibited; and
Sections 357.14; and 349.13(c)(6) that
prohibit parking of motor vehicles
in the setback area of the property
located at 2267 East 83rd Street.
Calendar No. 13-271: Appeal of OC
Lorain Fulton LP and McDonald’s
USA, LLC 3615 Lorain Avenue
(Ward 3)
OC Lorain Fulton LP, property
owner, and McDonald’s USA, LLC,
prospective tenant, appeal under the
authority of Sections 329.02 and
329.021 of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances from a final decision of
the Cleveland City Planning Commission rendered on November 15,
2013 regarding new restaurant construction within a Pedestrian Retail
Overlay District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JANUARY 6, 2014
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, January
6, 2014, the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.

11

acreage in a Downtown Residential
District.

The
following
APPROVED:

Calendar No. 13-259: 1150 Old River
Road
Flats Eat Bank Development LLC
appealed to erect a one-story 6,281
square foot restaurant on acreage in
a Downtown Residential District.

Calendar No. 13-256: 5700 Detroit
Avenue
Cleveland West Shore Development and Detroit Shoreway Community
Development
Organization
appealed to change use of a warehouse to a 30 unit apartment building in a C2 Local Retail Business
District.

Calendar No. 13-260: 1150 Front
Avenue
Flats East Bank Development
LLC appealed to erect a one-story
16,000 square foot entertainment
venue
and
a
five-story
272,426
square foot office building and parking garage on acreage in a Downtown Residential District.
Calendar No. 13-261: 1060 West 10
Street
Flats East Bank Development
LLC appealed to erect a one-story
3,000 square foot restaurant on
acreage in a Downtown Residential
District.
Calendar No. 13-265: 3151 West 140th
Street
James
Robinson
appealed
to
install a 6 feet high privacy fence
on a side street property line of a
residence in an A1 One-Family District.
Calendar No. 13-248: 2919 East 37th
Street
Charlie
Whitfield
appealed
to
erect a 2,046 square foot addition to
an existing building in a C2 SemiIndustry District; subject to modified plan.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 13-269: 3539 Rocky
River Drive
Mary Ann Winters appealed to
allow approximately 105 linear feet
of 6 feet high solid wooden fence;
23 linear feet of 4 feet high solid
fence with a 20 feet wide gate and
70 linear feet of 4 feet high wooden
fence of 40% opacity on a corner
parcel in an A1 One-Family District.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 13-219: 4931 State Road
Ioannis
Vasilakis,
owner,
and
Ishaq Alhmzeh, prospective tenant,
appealed to change use from an
auto parts store to granite countertop sales / contractor shop a onestory building in a B1 General
Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 13-268: 2250 Community College Avenue
Skyline Tower LP appealed to
install an identification sign on
property in an F4 Residence Office
District.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.

The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 13-258: 1056 Old River
Road
Flats East Bank Development
LLC appealed to erect a free-standing
5,500
square
foot
one-story
restaurant and a 12,000 square foot
one-story entertainment venue on

The following appeals were POSTPONED:
None.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on December 30, 3013
were adopted and approved on January 6, 2014.

17

appeals

were

Calendar No. 13-262: 1449 West 58th
Street
James Alves appealed to change
use of a two-story masonry church
and one-story frame Sunday School
Building to a single family residence in a B1 Two-Family District.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the of-

The City Record

12
fice of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
THURSDAY, JANUARY 30, 2014
File No. 1-14 — Martin Luther King
Jr. Blvd. Resurfacing (Buckingham To Cedar), for the Mayor’s
Office of Capital Projects, Division of Engineering and Construction, as authorized by Ordinance No. 649-13, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
May 20, 2013.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF SEVENTY FIVE
DOLLARS
($75.00)
PAYMENT
ONLY IN THE FORM OF A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
OR
A
MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JANUARY 16, 2014
AT 9:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, ROOM 518 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only pur-

chase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
File No. 2-14 — Puritas Avenue
Resurfacing (S.R. 237 to West
130th Street), for the Mayor’s
Office of Capital Projects, Division of Engineering and Construction, as authorized by Ordinance No. 674-13, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
May 20, 2013.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF SEVENTY FIVE
DOLLARS
($75.00)
PAYMENT
ONLY IN THE FORM OF A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
OR
A
MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JANUARY 16, 2014
AT 9:30 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, ROOM 518 601 LAKESIDE
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
AVENUE,
44114.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
January 8, 2014 and January 15, 2014

January 8, 2014
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2014
File No. 3-14 — Contractual Restoration
of
Water
Main,
Fire
Hydrants, Water Main Appurtenances, Service Connections and
Underground Enclosures, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 314-13, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, April 8, 2013.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JANUARY 16, 2014
AT
2:30PM,
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE 2ND FLOOR ATRIUM
CONFERENCE ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
January 8, 2014 and January 15, 2014

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
NONE

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

NO MEETINGS

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Community College Avenue, 2250, (Ward 5) — Skyline Tower LP, owner — appeal withdrawn
on 1/6/14 (Cal. 13-268) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Avenue, 5700, (Ward 15) — Cleveland West Shore Development and Detroit
Shoreway Community Development Organization — appeal granted and adopted on
1/6/14 (Cal. 13-256). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 37th Street, 2919, (Ward 5) — Charlie Whitfield, owner — appeal heard on 1/6/14
(Cal. 13-248) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Front Avenue, 1150, (Ward 3) — Flats East Development LLC, owner — appeal heard on 1/6/14
(Cal. 13-260) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old River Road, 1056, (Ward 3) — Flats East Development LLC, owner — appeal heard
on 1/6/14 (Cal. 13-258) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old River Road, 1150, (Ward 3) — Flats East Development LLC, owner — appeal heard
on 1/6/14 (Cal. 13-259) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Drive, 3539, (Ward 19) — Mary Ann Winters, owner — appeal heard on
1/6/14 (Cal. 13-269). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Road, 4931, (Ward 13) — Ioannis Vasilakis, owner, and Ishaq Alhamzeh, prospective
tenant — appeal withdrawn on 1/6/14 (Cal. 13-219) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 10th Street, 1060, (Ward 3) — Flats East Development LLC, owner — appeal heard on
1/6/14 (Cal. 13-261). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 140th Street, 3151, (Ward 19) — James Robinson, owner — appeal heard on 1/6/14
(Cal. 13-265) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 58th Street, 1449, (Ward 15) — James Alves, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
1/6/14 (Cal. 13-262). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

18

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17

January 8, 2014

The City Record

13

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
East 83rd Street, 2267, (Ward 6) — Timothy Willis, owner — appeal to be heard on 1/21/14
(Cal. 13-263) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Lorain Avenue, 3615, (Ward 3) — OC Lorain Fulton LP and McDonald’s USA, LLC, owners —
appeal to be heard on 1/21/14 (Cal. 13-271) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17

City Council
Britt, Patricia J. — Clerk of Council, City Clerk (F 3-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kelley, Kevin J. — President of Council (F 2-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Members, 2014-2017 — Wards 1-17 (Wards 1,2,3,4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13,
16, 17) (F 1-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rules of Council, 2014-2017 Term (F 4-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

......
......
14, 15,
......
......

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10

City of Cleveland Bids
Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard resurfacing project (Buckingham to Cedar) — Office of
Capital Projects — Division of Engineering and Construction — per Ord. 649-13 — bid
due January 30, 2014 (advertised 1/8/2014 and 1/15/2014). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Puritas Avenue resurfacing project (S.R. 237 to West 130th Street) — Office of Capital
Projects — Division of Engineering and Construction — per Ord. 674-13 — bid due
January 30, 2014 (advertised 1/8/2014 and 1/15/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Water main, fire hydrants, water main appurtenances, service connections and underground
enclosures restoration — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per
Ord. 314-13 — bid due February 5, 2014 (advertised 1/8/2014 and 1/15/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18

Clerk of Council
Britt, Patricia J. — Clerk of Council, City Clerk (F 3-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10

Communications

Oath of Office
Britt, Patricia J. — Clerk of Council, City Clerk (F 3-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kelley, Kevin J. — President of Council (F 2-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Members, 2014-2017 — Wards 1-17 (Wards 1,2,3,4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13,
16, 17) (F 1-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

19

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
14, 15,
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10

