The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

October the Twenty-Second, Two Thousand and Fourteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

13

Board of Control

13

Civil Service

15

1 Terrell H. Pruitt

Board of Zoning Appeals

15

2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
17

4 Kenneth L. Johnson

Public Notice

17

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

17

6 Mamie J. Mitchell

City of Cleveland Bids

17

7 TJ Dow

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

18

Committee Meetings

36

Index

36

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Jeffrey D. Johnson
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Martin J. Sweeney
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zack Reed ..........................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
44119
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Martin J. Flask, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Special Projects
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Public Affairs
Edward W. Rybka, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY – Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., Director
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Sharon Dumas, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Toinette Parrilla, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Chantez Williams, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Myron Benett, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Ronald J.H. O'Leary, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Eugene R. Miller (Board Lawyer), Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice
Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary
Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa
Ryan, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth
Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director; Anthony
J. Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Allan Dreyer, Giancarlo Calicchia, Council Member
Terrell H. Pruitt, Robert Strickland, Julie Trott, Robert Vilkas, Donald Petit, Interim
Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Ed Wade – Courtroom 12A
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Chief Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2014

Vol. 101

No. 5263

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2014
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2014-2017
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman
(CHAIR), Mitchell (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Property Committee: K. Johnson
(CHAIR), Sweeney (VICE-CHAIR),
Brancatelli, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, Reed.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley (CHAIR), Cleveland (VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Cimperman, Cummins, Dow, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR),
Brady
(VICEBrancatelli,
Cummins,
CHAIR),
Keane, Mitchell, Polensek.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Zone (VICE-CHAIR),
J.Johnson, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Sweeney.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone
(CHAIR),
Conwell
(VICECHAIR), Cimperman, Dow, K.Johnson, Keane, Polensek.
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Dow
(VICE-CHAIR), Conwell, J. Johnson,
K.Johnson, Reed, Sweeney.

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:

FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL

Mayor's Appointments Committee:
Sweeney (CHAIR), Brady, Cleveland, Dow, Kelley.

File No. 1391-14.
RE: #8112875. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1 C2. Shree Hari
Convenient, LLC, 4051 West 140th St.
(Ward 16). Received.

Operations
Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR), Kelley, Keane, Mitchell,
Zone.
Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Keane, Pruitt.

Kelley
Cummins,

File No. 1392-14.
RE: #0717975. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A D6.
Big Momma’s Hill, LLC, 16417-19
Euclid Ave. (Ward 10). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, October 20, 2014
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 7:02 p.m. with the
President of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Brian J. Cummins,
TJ Dow, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Kevin
J. Kelley, Kenneth L. Johnson, Martin J. Keane, Mamie J. Mitchell,
Michael D. Polensek, Terrell H.
Pruitt,
Zack
Reed,
Martin
J.
Sweeney, and Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Regional Development Edward W. Rybka, Chief of
Education Monyka S. Price, Chief of
Communications Maureen Harper,
Chief
of
Sustainability
Jenita
McGowan, Chief of Public Affairs
Natoya Walker-Minor, and Directors
Langhenry, Dumas, Smith, Spronz,
Parrilla,
Cox,
Rush,
O’Leary,
Southerington,
Griffin,
Collier,
Fumich, and Burrows.

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res.
Res.
Res.
liss.
Res.
Res.
Jr.

No. 1400-14 Lamont Kinney.
No. 1401-14 Annie Lee Croom.
No. 1402-14 Alforniece ChambNo. 1403-14 James E. Scott.
No. 1404-14 Willie David Neal,

CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1405-14 John Boyland —
100th Birthday.
Res. No. 1406-14 Leon Bibb.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1407-14 Curly Range.
Res. No. 1408-14 Famicos Foundation.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTION

Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
Imam Abbas Ahmad, First Cleveland Mosque, Cleveland, Ohio (Ward
4). Pledge of Allegiance.

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:

MOTION

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED

On the motion of Council Member
Cummins, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed
with
and
the
journal
approved. Seconded by Council Member Pruitt.
COMMUNICATION
File No. 1390-14.
From Office of Equal Opportunity,
City of Cleveland. Bi-Monthly Status
Report for September, 2014, dated
October 6, 2014, including City Resident Utilization Report. Received.

1521

Res. No. 1409-14 Patricia Gullian.

Ord. No. 1381-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
accept a cash donation from Burten,
Bell, Carr Development, Inc. to be
used towards the improvement of the
Dwayne Browder football field.
Whereas, Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. has applied for a grant
from the NFL Grassroots Program in
the amount of $200,000; and

4
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, in the event Burten,
Bell, Carr Development, Inc. receives
the grant from the NFL Grassroots
Program, the Director of Public
Works is authorized to accept a cash
donation in the amount of $200,000
from Burten, Bell, Carr Development,
Inc. to be used towards the improvement of the Dwayne Browder football
field. The Director is further authorized to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive the
funds accepted under this ordinance,
and on acceptance of the funds by the
Director, they shall be appropriated
for the purposes described in this
ordinance.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Municipal Services and Properties,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1382-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf
of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Substance Abuse and Mental Health
Services Administration for the Opiate Outpatient Treatment Project;
and authorizing the Director to enter
into one or more agreements with various municipal courts, and other entities to implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
apply for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $975,000 and
any other funds that become available during the grant term, from the
Substance Abuse and Mental Health
Services Administration, to conduct
the Opiate Outpatient Treatment Project, for the purposes in the legislative summary; that the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and the funds are appropriated for the purposes in the legislative summary for the grant.
Section 2. That the legislative summary for the grant, presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
a public hearing on this legislation
and set forth in File No. 1382-14-A, is
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, is approved in all
respects, and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, shall have the
authority to extend the term of the
grant if the extension does not
involve an increase in the dollar
amount of the grant specified above.

The City Record
Section 4. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
enter into one or more agreements
with the municipal courts of the
Cities of East Cleveland, Euclid,
Rocky River, Shaker Heights, and
South Euclid, Community Assessment
and Treatment Services, Moore Counseling and Mediation Services, Case
Western Reserve University, and
other public or private entities to
implement the grant as described in
the file.
Section 5. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 6. That the cost of the agreement or purchases made under this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant funds accepted under this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1383-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Alcohol Drug Addiction and Mental
Health Services Board of Cuyahoga
County for the 2015 Mental Health
and Substance Abuse Prevention Program; and to enter into one or more
agreements with the Board for the
City to receive payments from the
Medicaid program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $330,068 and any other
funds that may become available during the grant term, from the Alcohol
Drug Addiction and Mental Health
Services Board of Cuyahoga County
to conduct the 2015 Mental Health and
Substance Abuse Prevention Program; that the Director of Public
Health is authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary
to receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes set forth in the executive summary for the grant contained in the file described below.
Section 2. That the executive summary for the grant, presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
a public hearing on this legislation
and set forth in File No. 1383-14-A, is
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, is approved in all

1522

October 22, 2014
respects, and shall not be changed
without
additional
legislative
authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
Alcohol Drug Addiction and Mental
Health Services Board of Cuyahoga
County for the City to receive payments from the Medicaid programs
for alcohol drug addiction and mental
health services provided by the City.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to charge and
accept fees from participants of this
program, according to the sliding fee
scale placed in the file, and to deposit
those fees into a revolving fund
which will be used to provide additional materials equipment, supplies,
and services under the program
described in the file, and the funds
are appropriated for that purpose.
Section 7. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 8. That the costs of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds, Medicaid payments
accepted under this ordinance, and
from the fund or funds to which are
credited any fees received under this
program.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees on
Health and Human Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 1384-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Department of Health for the
Title X Program; authorizing the
director to charge and accept fees;
entering into one or more agreements
to receive payments from Medicare,
Medicaid and Medicaid HMO programs; contracting with various entities, authorizing one or more requirement contracts; and authorizing the
purchase or lease of television and
radio advertising time and other
media.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

October 22, 2014
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $706,817 and any other
funds that may become available during the grant term, from the Ohio
Department of Health to conduct the
Title X Program; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes set forth in the executive
summary for the grant contained in
the file described below.
Section 2. That the executive summary for the grant, File No. 1384-14-A,
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, as presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
the public hearing on this legislation,
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority, is
approved in all respects, including
the obligation to devote program
income from first and third party
billings.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements necessary for
the City to receive payments from
Medicare, Medicaid and Medicaid
HMOs to implement the grant as
described in the file.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with various
entities, including but not limited to,
The MetroHealth System, a county
hospital, organized under R.C. 339
and Case Western Reserve University
ID Alliance, necessary to implement
the grant as described in the file.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to make one
or more written contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the purchase or lease, during the grant term,
of television and radio advertising
time and other media, for the Department of Public Health.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements during the
grant term of the necessary items of
materials, equipment, supplies, and
services needed to implement the
grant as described in the file, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Department of Public
Health. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids for
a period less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 7. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 8. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,

The City Record
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 9. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to charge and
accept fees from participants of this
program and to deposit those fees into
a revolving fund which will be used to
provide additional materials, equipment, supplies, and services under the
program described in the file, and the
funds are appropriated for that purpose.
Section 10. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 11. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 12. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds which are credited the grant
proceeds, the first and third party
billings, and from the Medicaid reimbursements accepted under this ordinance.
Section 13. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees on
Health and Human Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 1385-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of rock salt, for
the Division of Streets, Department of
Public Works, for a period of one
year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the period of one year of the necessary items
of rock salt, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Division
of Streets, Department of Public
Works. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Alternate bids
Control determines.
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.

1523

5
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 7016, RL 201435)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Works may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Municipal Services and Properties,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1386-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more contracts of a fire aerial apparatus, for
the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Works.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to make one
or more written contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or
all of the following items: one (1) fire
aerial apparatus, to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies on a unit basis, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Works.
Section 2. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchase authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Works may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchase, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 20 SF 559, Request
No. RQS 7015, RL 2014-49.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Municipal Services and Properties,
Finance.

The City Record

6

October 22, 2014

Ord. No. 1394-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Sections 131.78 and 453.01 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by various ordinances, relating to parking fees and parking regulations in parking meter zones.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 131.78 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 332-11
passed April 25, 2011, and Section 453.01 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 169-13, passed April 22,2013, are amended to read as follows:
Parking Fees
Section 131.78
(a) The Commissioner of Parking Facilities shall cause to be collected fees and charges, which include tax, at the following parking facilities under the following schedule:
(1)

(2)

(3)

Willard Park Garage:
A. First hour or portion thereof
B. Each additional half hour or portion
C. Daily maximum rate from 5:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
D. Additional overnight charge from 11:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.
E. General monthly rate
F. 1. Special monthly rate for City employees
F. 2. Special monthly rate for federal, state and
county employees
G. Special events (flat rate – pay enter)
H. Charge for lost or stolen key card
I. Late payment charge
J. Early Bird Rate (time to be determined by the
Director of Public Works)
K. Special Event flat rate in conjunction with
City Hall Rotunda rental (for weekend events)
Canal Basin Lot:
A. Daily rate from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
(flat rate – pay enter)
B. General monthly rate (weekdays between
6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.)
C. Special events, weekdays between 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.,
weekends and holidays (flat rate – pay enter)
D. Late payment charge
E. Charge for lost or stolen key card

$3.25
$1.50
up to $15.00
up to $15.00
up to $125.00
$55.00
up to $125.00
up to $30.00
$50.00
$5.00
up to $10.00
$450.00

up to $3.00
up to $40.00
up to $10.00
$5.00
$50.00

North Coast Municipal Parking Lot:
A. Daily rate (flat rate – pay enter)
(cars, SUVs, small trucks)
up to $5.00
B. Daily rate (flat rate - pay enter)
(RVs, buses, oversize trucks, trailers)
$35.00
C. City of Cleveland employees
no charge
D. General monthly rate – non-City of Cleveland employees
up to $75.00
up to $30.00
E. Special Events (flat rate – pay enter)
F. Charge for lost or stolen key card
$50.00
G. Late payment fee
$5.00
H. Overnight Rate (RVs, buses, oversize trucks, trailers)
$75.00
I. Overnight Rate (cars, SUVs, small trucks)
$25.00

(b) Wherever the schedule contained in division (a) of this section specifies a maximum fee, the fee to be charged
shall be fixed by the Commissioner of Parking Facilities with the consent of the Director of Public Works up to the maximum specified.
(c) Monthly rate customer parking privileges at Willard Park Garage, Canal Basin Lot, and North Coast Municipal
Parking Lot do not include entry to these garages and lots for special events held on weekends, holidays or after 6:00
p.m. on weekdays.
(d) Fees collected from the Willard Park Garage, Canal Basin Lot, and North Coast Municipal Parking Lot shall be
credited to the Division of Parking Facilities Enterprise Fund for general operations.
(e) The Commissioner of Parking Facilities shall fix and collect the fees and charges as the Commissioner shall determine at parking facilities not identified in division (a) of this section but under the Commissioner’s control until the
Council and the Board of Control fix fee schedules for the parking facilities.
(f) Notwithstanding any provision in this section to the contrary, the Commissioner of Parking Facilities shall:
(1) Designate ten (10) parking spaces in Willard Garage located as close as practical to the entrance to City Hall to
be assigned by the Director of Public Works to City employees with the greatest number of years seniority as a City
employee; and
(2) Designate a sufficient number of parking spaces located either in the North Mall Lot or in Willard Garage for City
employees who are employed to clean City Hall and who begin work at 3:00 p.m. or later and work later than the closing
of Willard Garage.
(g) In addition to the schedule contained in division (a) of this section, the Commissioner of Parking Facilities may
enter into agreements with the sponsors of events that wish to reserve specific parking spaces in the Willard Park
Garage, or the North Coast Municipal Parking Lot that provide for the payment by the sponsor of up to thirty dollars
($30.00) per parking space.

1524

October 22, 2014

The City Record

7

Section 453.01 Parking Regulations in Parking Meter Zones
(a) No person shall park a vehicle in a space adjacent to a street parking meter unless the curb side wheels of such a
vehicle are parallel with and not more than twelve (12) inches from the curb. The front and rear extremities of the vehicle shall be between adjacent meter posts or not more than three (3) feet from the post of an end meter. Whenever a vehicle is parked in a street parking meter zone where a meter has been installed, the person parking such vehicle shall
deposit in such parking meter a coin of United States money of the denomination designated on the plates attached to
such parking meter, if such meter displays the signal showing that legal parking is only permitted on such deposit.
(b) The coins required in parking meter zones shall be as follows:
(1) In the Downtown Parking Area, as defined in Section 403.04, but excluding Institutional Areas and long-term parking zones, as defined herein, one dollar ($1.00) per hour or twenty-five cents ($0.25) per fifteen (15) minute period;
(2) In Institutional Areas, seventy-five cents ($0.75) per hour or any portion thereof. For purposes of this section, an
“Institutional Area” means the area adjacent to any hospital or educational institution in the City;
(3) In all other areas of the City, fifty cents ($0.50) per hour or any portion thereof;
(4) In long term parking zones, within the Downtown Parking Area, as defined in Section 403.04, fifty cents ($.50) per
hour up to a maximum of three dollars ($3.00) (all day rate). For purposes of this section, “long term parking zone”
means an area where parking is permitted for up to ten (10) hours.
(c) Notice to the public shall be given by appropriate signs, setting forth the length of time for which parking is permitted and the conditions thereof. These may be upon the parking meter stand or in the immediate vicinity. Any vehicle
which remains in a metered parking zone after the prescribed time for parking is hereby determined to be illegally
parked. At each place where street metered parking zones are so established as provided in Section 403.06 and are so
marked off, each vehicle shall be parked entirely within a metered parking zone space. The provisions of this section
shall not apply to vehicles parking upon the street of the City between the hours of 6:00 p.m. In the evening until 7:00
a.m. the following morning and upon Saturdays, Sundays, New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor
Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and Martin Luther King Day, unless a different rule or regulation is otherwise
set forth in this Traffic Code, and shall not apply to any parking meter space in the downtown parking area, as defined
in Section 403.04, on the day after Thanksgiving (“Black Friday”) and December 26th.
Section 2. That the amendment and repeal under this ordinance of existing Section 131.78 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 332-11 passed April 25, 2011, and existing Section 453.01 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 169-13, passed April 22, 2013, shall be effective
January 1, 2015.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Works, Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.

Ord. No. 1396-14.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 by enacting new
Section 347.121 and to amend Section
343.11 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 729-09, passed July 1,
2009, relating to hookah lounges and
vapor lounges.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, 1976
are supplemented by enacting new
Section 347.121 to read as follows:
Section 347.121 Hookah Lounges
and Vapor Lounges
(a) Where permitted in a particular
use district, hookah lounges and
vapor lounges, as described in Section
343.11, may only operate between 9:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Sunday through
Thursday and between 9:00 a.m. and
11:00 p.m. Friday and Saturday.
(b) Separation and Spacing. No
such use shall be established within
one thousand (1,000) feet of any
school, playground, daycare, public
park or other hookah lounge or
vapor lounge, or within five hundred
(500) feet of any church or religious
building.
(c) Parking. Hookah lounges and
vapor lounges shall provide a minimum of 35 off-street parking places
per establishment.
Section 2. That Section 343.11 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 729-09, passed July 1, 2009 is
amended to read as follows:

Section 343.11 General Retail Business Districts
(a) “General retail business” means
an enterprise for profit for the convenience and service of, and dealing
directly with, and accessible to, the
ultimate consumer; neither injurious
to adjacent premises or to the occupants thereof by reason of the emission of cinders, dust, fumes, noise,
odors, refuse matter, smoke, vapor or
vibrations; nor dangerous to life or
property. It includes buildings or
spaces necessary to a permitted use
for making or storing articles to be
sold at retail on the premises. Except
as provided in division (b) of this section, it does not include any establishment which supplies a retail outlet
other than that on the premises, or
any building or use specifically mentioned as permitted only in a SemiIndustry or Industry District.
Permitted
Buildings
and
(b)
Uses.  The following buildings and
uses are permitted in a General Retail
Business District; and no buildings or
premises shall hereafter be erected,
altered, used, arranged or designed to
be used, in whole or in part for other
than one (1) or more of the following
specified uses:
(1) Except as otherwise provided in
this Zoning Code, all uses permitted
and as regulated in any Local Retail
Business District;
(2) All retail business uses and
buildings specified in division (b) of
Section 343.01, and uses and buildings
to provide for:
A. The sale of food and beverages
of all kinds, including sale for consumption on the premises;
B. The sale of general merchandise,
including sale in department stores;
C. The sale of apparel of all kinds;
D. The sale of furniture and household goods, including furniture and
accessory furniture storage;

1525

E. The sale of other goods or merchandise;
F. Eating places of all types;
G. Service establishments: service
establishments permitted in a Local
Retail Business District without limitation on the number of persons
engaged in such work or business;
mortuary or undertaking establishment; printing shop, provided not
more than five (5) persons are
engaged in such work or business;
research laboratory, radio or television station, telephone exchange or
transformer station, provided all
buildings and structures except
fences and barriers are located not
less than fifteen (15) feet from a Residence District; hospital, sanitarium,
convalescent home, rest home, nursing home, orphanage or home for the
infirm or aged, provided that all main
buildings are not less than fifteen
(15) feet from any adjoining premises in a Residence District not used for
a similar purpose; cat and dog hospital or pet shop, provided noise and
odors are effectively confined to the
premises;
H. Business offices and services: in
addition to the uses permitted in
Local Retail Districts, office buildings, banks, business colleges, private trade schools;
I. Automotive services: in addition
to the uses permitted in Local Retail
Districts:
1. Motor vehicle service station, as
defined in Section 325.486, and meeting the provisions of Section 343.14;
2. Car wash, as defined in Section  325.111, and meeting the provisions of Section 343.14;
3. Motor vehicle service garage, as
defined in Section 325.487, and meeting the provisions of Section 343.14;
4. Motor vehicle sales facility, as
defined in Section 325.485, except for

8
vehicles exceeding six thousand
(6,000) pounds of gross vehicle
weight.
J. House trailer or travel trailer
park, as defined in RC 3733.01, when
approved by the Board of Zoning
Appeals after public hearing, and
when used and maintained in conformity with any conditions specified in
such approval;
K. Signs: signs permitted in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 350;
L. Amusement and recreation:
armory, assembly hall, bowling alley,
dance hall, video and pinball arcade,
pool and billiards theater, skating
rink or other social, sport or recreational center operated as a business,
all such uses subject to the regulations of Section 347.12 and adult entertainment
uses,
subject
to
Section 347.07, provided that the place or
building in which any such amusement or recreation use is operated is
sufficiently sound-insulated to confine the noise to the premises;
M. Transportation services: railroad station; public service station;
bus passenger station; bus terminal,
provided the roadway of the street
upon which the bus entrance or exit is
located is at least forty-four (44) feet
wide between curbs;
N. Office, display or sales space of a
wholesale, jobbing or distributing
establishment and specifically mentioned as permitted only in a less
restricted district, in connection with
which not more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the floor area of the
building or part of the building occupied by the establishment is used for
making, assembling, remodeling,
repairing, altering, finishing or refinishing its products or merchandise
and provided that:
1. Any resulting cinders, dust,
fumes, noise, odors, refuse matter,
smoke, vapor or vibration is effectively confined to the premises;
2. The ground floor premises facing
upon and visible from a major street
upon which the premises abut shall be
used only for entrances, offices or display;
3. Adequate off-street loading and
unloading facilities are provided and
so designed that any standing vehicles using them shall be within the
property lines and be either not visible from streets within Retail Business, Local Retail Business or Residence District, or not nearer than fifty
(50) feet to such streets.
O. Retail poultry business: either as
a main use or as an accessory use,
including the storing and killing of
poultry or game to be sold entirely at
retail upon the premises and directly
to the ultimate consumer, provided
that the enterprise is conducted in
strict compliance with all applicable
statutes, laws, rules and regulations,
including those requiring rat- proofing, and that adjacent premises or the
occupants thereof are not injured by
reason of the emission of dust, odor,
smoke or noise or the accumulation of
refuse or offal, and provided further
that the buildings in which the
killing, storing and selling are done
are either detached masonry structures or part of a masonry building
used entirely for the handling of poultry and/or game.
1. A detached masonry structure
used for slaughtering or for storing of
live poultry shall have not less than
one hundred (100) square feet of floor
area and shall be located at least ten

The City Record
(10) feet from any other building or
part thereof on the same lot which is
used for human habitation, or as a
place where other food is prepared,
placed, kept or sold.
2. Where the slaughtering room is
part of a masonry building used
entirely for the handling of poultry
and/or game, such slaughtering
room shall be separated from the
sales or storage room by a solid
masonry wall in which there may be
only one (1) opening not greater than
four (4) square feet in size, located
not less than four (4) feet above the
floors of both rooms, equipped with
either a self-closing window or selfclosing door. Such slaughtering room
shall be entered only from outside the
building.
3. In either case, such slaughtering room shall be used only for
killing, flicking and dressing and
shall be not less than twenty- five
(25) feet from the boundary of the
premises upon which it is located.
All offal and refuse must be kept in
covered containers within such
slaughtering room until removed
from the premises.
Such slaughtering room and every
building, room or space used for storage or sale of poultry or game in connection therewith shall be not less
than three hundred (300) feet from
any Residence District, church,
school, playground, library or building of Institutional H Occupancy classification.
P. Tattooing and body piercing. As
used in this division:
1. “Body Piercing” means the piercing of any part of the body by someone other than a physician licensed
under RC Chapter 4731, who utilizes a
needle or other instrument for the
purpose of inserting an object into the
body for non-medical purposes; body
piercing includes ear piercing except
when the ear piercing procedure is
performed on the ear with an ear
piercing gun.
2. “Tattoo” means any method utilizing needles or other instruments by
someone other than a physician
licensed under RC Chapter 4731, to
permanently place designs, letters,
scrolls, figures, symbols or any other
marks upon or under the skin of a person with ink or any other substance
resulting in an alteration of the
appearance of the skin.
Q. Kennels, either as a main use or
an accessory use, provided that all
odors, fumes, and noise be confined to
the premises and the lot upon which
the kennel is located is greater than
one hundred (100) feet from a residence district.
1. Notwithstanding division (d)(3)
of Section 329.03, the Board, on application for a use variance, may permit
a Kennel in any use district.
2. The limitations stated in divisions
(b)
and
(c)
of
Section  329.03  shall not apply when
deciding whether to issue a use variance for a Kennel, the Board shall
evaluate the applicant Kennel’s
probable impact on the overall tranquility of the surrounding properties
by considering all odors, noises, and
fumes that will emanate from the lot
on which the applicant Kennel is
located.
R. Any other building, use or service similar to the uses herein listed
in the type of services or goods sold,
in the number of persons or cars to be
attracted to the premises or in the

1526

October 22, 2014
effect upon adjacent areas in more
restricted use districts;
S. Any accessory use customarily
incident to a use authorized by this
section, except that no use specified
in divisions (b) and (c) of Section 345.04 as prohibited or permitted
only by special permit in a General
Industry District shall be permitted
as an accessory use;
T. Hookah Lounge: any facility,
establishment or location whose business operation, includes the smoking
of tobacco or any organic or synthetic
material, including but not limited to
plants, herbs or tobacco, through one
or more hookah pipes (also commonly
referred to as a hookah, waterpipe,
shisha or narghile), including but not
limited to establishments known variously as hookah bars, hookah
lounges, or hookah cafes;
U. Vapor Lounge: any facility,
establishment or location, whether
fixed or mobile, whose business operation includes the utilization of a
heating element that vaporizes a substance that releases nicotine, tobacco,
flavored vapor, or vapor or fumes
from any other organic or synthetic
material including but not limited to
plants, herbs or tobacco, through one
or more electronic or battery operated
delivery device, including any device
known as an electronic cigarette
(also commonly referred to as e-cig, ecigarette, e-pipe, electronic cigarillo,
hookah pen, vape pen, vape pipe or
any other electronic cigarette product), including but not limited to
establishments known variously as
vape bars, vape lounges, e-cigarette
bars or vape cafes.
(3) Hotels;
(4) Motels;
(5) Charitable institutions, including correctional halfway houses, as
regulated in Section  347.15; and
notwithstanding any Section of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the Cuyahoga County Youth Intervention Center, providing temporary detention
and shelter for juveniles, to be located
at East 93rd Street, and Quincy
Avenue.
Section 3. That existing Section
347.11 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 729-09, passed July 1,
2009 is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors on Building
and Housing, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 1397-14.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Zone and Cummins.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 131.10, to establish a Decorative Street Painting Permit.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record

October 22, 2014
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 131.10 as follows:
Section 131.10 Decorative Street
Painting Permits
(a) Purpose. The purpose of this
ordinance is to permit and regulate
the painting of designs on certain
local city streets within the public
right-of-way by granting a permit to
applicants in order to promote the following:
(1) Make residential streets attractive environments;
(2) Encourage and support communities to work cooperatively to beautify neighborhoods;
(3) Promote traffic safety for community residents and children by
calming vehicular traffic; and
(4) Encourage well-designed, creative and aesthetically pleasing decorative street paintings.
(b) Application for Permit. An
application for permit shall be made
to the Director of Public Works upon
a form provided by the Director for
that purpose. The application form
shall include the following:
(1) The name, address, telephone
number, and e-mail address of the
applicant and a person primarily
responsible for the proposed design;
(2) The name and contact information of a neighborhood association
that supports the application;
(3) A detailed description of the
design proposed to be painted, including a scale, color diagram or drawing;
(4) A detailed description of the
proposed location of the design, meeting the requirements of subsection
(d) (2) herein;
(5) A petition of support with signatures from each of the owners of
property adjacent to the area to be
painted and not less than 51% of the
remaining owners of property within
a 200 foot radius from the design location, indicating approval of the project and location. The Director of Public Works may modify the petition
boundaries when deemed appropriate
and shall also certify the accuracy of
the petition;
(6) Any additional information
deemed necessary by the Director of
Public Works; and
(7) A permit application fee
charged by the Director in an amount
not to exceed the Director’s cost in
administering such application.
(c) Issuance. The Director shall
issue a permit that requires closure of
the right-of-way, after approval by

the Commissioner of Traffic Engineering of the location and approval
by the Public Art Committee, City
Planning Commission of the painting
design. Upon receipt of an application
in compliance with subsection (b)
herein, the Director shall notify the
City Councilmember(s) in whose
ward(s) the street painting design is
proposed. The Director shall issue a
permit authorizing the use and closure of the right-of-way in the
ward(s) of the City Councilmember(s) so notified, unless within fifteen (15) days of receipt of notification an objection or comment is
received by the Director. If the notification to the Director is in the nature
of a comment rather than an objection, then the Councilmember(s) shall
have an additional fifteen (15) days
in which to submit an objection. An
applicant may appeal any denial to
the Board of Zoning Appeals established under Charter Section 76-6.
Notice of such appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed with the Board
within ten (10) days from the date of
the written decision of the Director.
(d) Permit Conditions. A permit to
paint decorative designs on certain
local city streets shall be subject to
the following conditions:
(1) Eligible Locations:
A. A design may only be located on
a residential street, at the intersection of two residential streets, or a
mid-block location on a residential
street, and shall not be located within
200 feet of an intersection with a
street with a higher function.
B. The Commissioner of Traffic
Engineering must approve the proposed location, according to the above
criteria.
(2) Paint and Design Elements:
A. The proposed paint design shall
include decorative designs and patterns only, and shall contain no text,
numerals, symbols, or overt messages, including commercial messages.
B. Prohibited paint or design features:
1. No retroreflectivity;
2. The paint and resulting design
shall not include any relief or texture
(except anti-skid texturizing material under subsection (2) C. 2. herein;
3. The design shall not create a
three-dimensional or multi-dimensional effect or other optical illusion;
4. The design shall not include any
element that mimics or imitates an
official traffic control device or marking or would be confused with the
same; and
5. The design shall not include any
element that interferes with or hinders the visibility of an official traffic

9
control device or marking already in
place, such as stop lines, marked
cross walks, edge lines, lane markers,
or bike lane markers.
C. Paint Materials:
1. Only acrylic water-based traffic
marking paint may be used, in the colors traditionally available (white,
yellow, blue, red, and black) or other
colors that may be achieved by mixing the traditional colors;
2. Paint must not result in a slippery surface, and must contain an
anti-skid additive to accomplish this;
and
3. A temporary chalk design
applied entirely with water-soluble
chalk may be used instead of paint
and shall be subject to all design and
location criteria herein.
D. The Public Art Committee, City
Planning Commission must approve
the proposed paint design, according
to the above criteria.
(3) The applicant shall notify all
households and businesses within a
200 foot radius from the design location at least 14 days prior to any painting of the street.
(4) Once permitted, the permittee
shall be responsible for all costs associated with the painting of the street
including, but not limited to, costs of
labor, paint, other materials, and
cleanup of the local street area upon
completion of the painting.
(5) The permittee shall maintain at
no cost to the City all aspects of the
project during the term of the permit.
(6) The permittee assumes all risk
in placing the painted design on the
local street including any damages,
vandalism, and/or destruction of the
painted design.
(7) The Director of Public Works
may require the removal of the painted design if the design creates a hazard, and demand that the use of the
local street be discontinued without
recourse against the City for any loss
or damage occasioned by any such
requirement.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY ORDINANCES READ IN FULL AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1393-14.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance To amend the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 834-14, passed October 6, 2014, relating to a permit to Crown Castle NG East Inc. to encroach into the public right-of-way with 23 nodes, cabinets,
and duct banks.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 834-14, passed October 6, 2014, are amended to read as
follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Crown Castle NG
East Inc. to encroach into the public right-of-way with 23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) and associated
pole-mounted cabinets to be attached to Cleveland Public Power utility poles and City of Cleveland traffic signal poles (by separate permission of the poles’ owners) together with electrical duct banks.

1527

The City Record

10

October 22, 2014

Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of Council, to Crown Castle NG East Inc., 2000 Corporate Drive, Canonburg, PA 15317 (“Permittee”), to encroach into the
public right-of-way of various streets by installing, using, and maintaining 23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) and associated pole-mounted cabinets to be attached to Cleveland Public Power utility poles and City of
Cleveland traffic-signal poles (by separate permission of the poles’ owners) together with electrical duct banks,
at the locations more fully described as follows:
Name
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node

Crown BUN
CL001
CL002
CL003
CL004
CL005
CL006
CL007
CL008
CL009
CL010
CL011
CL012
CL013
CL014
CL015
CL018
CL019
CL020
CL021
CL022

918969
918970
918971
918966
918967
918963
918964
918968
918965
918972
918973
918974
918975
918976
918977
918954
918958
928952
918953
918955

Node CL023
Node CL024
Node CL025

918956
918959
918957

Address

Lat

Long

3410 E. 114th St.
41.4659583
-81.6042278
3202 E. 117th St.
41.4714500
-81.6017556
12975 Imperial Ave.
41.4728889
-81.5920611
3791 E. 126th St.
41.4558017
-81.5953163
11511 Clarebird Ave.
41.4585520
-81.6032102
3488 E. 142nd St.
41.4647662
-81.5834897
3341 E. 137th St.
41.4682442
-81.5874127
13581 Horner Ave.
41.4558739
-81.5877482
3671 E. 143rd St.
41.4595559
-81.5822668
11602 Kensington Ave.
41.4498662
-81.7680281
12799 Wayland Ave.
41.4504806
-81.7760255
13311 Courtland Ave.
41.4456071
-81.7827300
4242 W. 134th St.
41.4393891
-81.7835120
13327 Puritas Ave.
41.433314
-81.7839330
4600 W. 127th St.
41.42825355
-81.7774194
1910 Carter Rd.
41.4930696
-81.6969572
1099 W. 9th St.
41.5017361
-81.7029111
41.5066619
-81.6890753
1200 Lakeside Ave.
1700 E. 9th St.
41.5020699
-81.6885757
Location to be confirmed and approved by Division of
Engineering and Construction
1802 Robert Lockwood Jr. Dr.
41.4858667
-81.6996278
1329 W. 9th St.
41.4988611
-81.7002444
608 Prospect Ave.
41.4984333
-81.6886222

Section 2. That the existing title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 834-14, passed October 6, 2014, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter, and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1395-14.
By Council Members Brady and
Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance declaring
a moratorium on the review and
issuance of zoning permits, certificates of occupancy, and other license
or permit applications for hookah
lounge operations and vapor lounge
operations in the City of Cleveland.
Whereas,
hookah
lounges
or
hookah bars, establishments where
patrons
share
flavored
tobacco
known as shisha, or non-tobacco
herbal shisha from a communal
hookah or waterpipe placed on a
table, have become popular in Cleveland in recent years; by whatever
name it might be known, hereinafter “hookah lounges”; and
Whereas, vapor lounges are establishments
similar
to
hookah
lounges, where patrons use a heating element that vaporizes a substance that releases nicotine, tobacco, flavored vapor or other substances through one or more electronic or battery operated delivery
devices, including devices known as
electronic cigarettes, vape pens or
hookah pens, and known variously
as vape bars, vape lounges, e-cigarette lounges or vape cafes; by
whatever name it might be known,
hereinafter “vapor lounges”; and
Whereas,
research
shows
that
hookah smoke can do as much or
more damage to your health as

smoking cigarettes or cigars; further, devices that vaporize substances, such as electronic cigarettes, are not emission free and the
use of such devices increases fine
particle air pollution and levels of
potentially carcinogenic compounds
in people who use them and;
Whereas, a study by the World
Health Organization indicates that
smoke inhaled during a typical
hookah session of one hour can
equal 100 cigarettes or more; and
Whereas, this Council believes
that a number of hookah lounge
establishments are operating in the
City of Cleveland in violation of
Ohio’s Smoking Ban (Chapter 3794
of the Revised Code) as well as
other state and local laws; and
Whereas, a number of hookah
lounges in the city are connected to
other businesses, including restaurants, allow patrons to bring in alcohol, and allow underage drinking
and smoking; moreover, numerous
fights and shootings have occurred
outside these establishments; and
Whereas, most recently, a young
man was shot and killed outside one
such hookah lounge on the City’s
west side; and
Whereas, because of concern for
the health and safety of the citizens
of the City, the public nuisances
hookah lounge present, as well as
the detrimental effects to the health
of patrons of hookah lounges and
vapor lounges, this Council finds it

1528

necessary to evaluate how best to
regulate hookah lounge operations
and vapor lounge operations in the
city and to consider their prohibition; and
Whereas, this Council will consider legislation that would regulate or
prohibit hookah lounge operations
and vapor lounge operations in the
City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, property, health, safety, or
welfare in that a moratorium on the
review and issuance of zoning permits, certificates of occupancy, and
other license or permit applications
for hookah lounge operations and
vapor lounge operations in the City
is necessary to enable this Council
to consider reasonable regulations
or the prohibition of hookah lounge
operations and vapor lounge operations; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, for the reasons stated in the preamble, this Council
declares a moratorium on the review
and issuance of zoning permits, certificates of occupancy, and other
license or permit applications for
hookah lounge operations and vapor
lounge operations for a period commencing on the effective date of this
ordinance and ending on either the
effective date of an ordinance regulating or prohibiting hookah lounge

October 22, 2014
operations and vapor lounge operations or April 20, 2015, whichever date
occurs first.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1387-14.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D2,
D2X, D3 and D6 Liquor Permit to 6201
St. Clair Avenue, 1st floor.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X, D3
and D6 Liquor Permit from Dot &
Beanies Tavern, Inc., 6201 St. Clair
Avenue, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44103, Permanent Number 2275179 to
Cheri Caldwell, DBA Dot & Beanies
Tavern, 6201 St. Clair Avenue, 1st
floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 1189725; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D2, D2X, D3 and D6
Liquor Permit from Dot & Beanies
Tavern, Inc., 6201 St. Clair Avenue, 1st
floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 2275179 to Cheri Caldwell, DBA Dot & Beanies Tavern, 6201
St. Clair Avenue, 1st floor, Cleveland,
Ohio
44103,
Permanent
Number
1189725; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1388-14.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New D3A Liquor Permit at 6201 St.
Clair Avenue, 1st floor.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for a New D3A
Liquor Permit at Cheri Caldwell,
DBA Dot & Beanies Tavern, 6201 St.
Clair Avenue, 1st floor, Cleveland,
Ohio
44103,
Permanent
Number
1189725; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation

1529

11
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New D3A
Liquor Permit at Cheri Caldwell, DBA
Dot & Beanies Tavern, 6201 St. Clair
Avenue, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44103, Permanent Number 1189725;
and requests the Superintendent of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeand
diately
upon
its
adoption
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1389-14.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Members Cimperman, Pruitt, Reed, K.
Johnson, Cleveland, Mitchell, Dow,
Polensek, Conwell, J. Johnson, Brady,
Brancatelli, Kelley, Cummins, Zone,
Sweeney and Keane.
An emergency resolution declaring
October 20, 2014 as Cleveland Down
Syndrome Day, and encouraging our
citizens to work together to promote
respect and inclusion of individuals
with Down syndrome and to celebrate
their accomplishments and contributions.
Whereas, approximately one in
every 691 children are born with
Down syndrome;  and
Whereas, Down syndrome occurs
in people of all races and economic
levels;  and
Whereas, there are over 400,000
individuals living with Down syndrome in the United States; and
Whereas, people with Down syndrome attend school, work, participate in decisions that affect them,
and contribute to society in many
wonderful ways; and
Whereas, the Up Side of Downs of
Northeast Ohio has been working
for over 30 years to provide support,
education and advocacy to individuals with Down syndrome, their families and the community, and currently serves over 900 families; and
Whereas, through public awareness, the city of Cleveland celebrates the hard work and progress
made by parents, self-advocates,
medical professionals, researchers,
educators, and many non-profit organizations including, but not limited
to, the Up Side of Downs; and

12
Whereas,
despite
dramatic
increases in lifespan and intellectual ability in the U.S., there is still
much work to be done regarding the
rights to equality, inclusion, education, medical care, research and support for people with Down syndrome;
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Mayor Jackson and
this Council declare October 20, 2014
as
Cleveland
Down
Syndrome
Day,  and encourages our citizens to
work together to promote respect and
inclusion of individuals with Down
syndrome and to celebrate their
accomplishments and contributions.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1398-14.
By Council Members Brady and J.
Johnson.
An emergency resolution requesting the Ohio Development Services
Agency to make policy revisions to
existing criteria related to the Ohio
Preservation Tax Credit in order to
create a more equitable playing field
for smaller-scale projects.
Whereas, the Ohio Historic Preservation Tax Credit is an invaluable
program assisting non-profits and
developments to save Ohio’s historic
structures as well as creating jobs
for Ohio residents; and
Whereas, the present scoring system by which projects vie to secure
an award, unintentionally eliminates
neighborhood-scale
projects
(those with over $8 million dollars
in rehabilitation costs) located in
small cities and urban neighborhoods; and
Whereas, the neighborhood-scale
projects, though costly, are smaller
in square footage than large downtown projects and thus can never
compete in number of construction
jobs; and
Whereas, in discussions with staff
at the Ohio Development Services
Agency, some policy revisions were
proposed that could be implemented
administratively, including:
• increase the intermediate project
set aside of qualified rehabilitation
expenditure to $10 million dollars for
the present $8 million dollars or less;
• increase the small projects pool
to $2 million dollars; and
• create a strategic initiative set
aside of $5 million dollars in annual
Ohio Historic Preservation Tax Credits.
Whereas, proposals such as these
have been implemented by other
state agencies administering tax

The City Record
credit programs to increase flexibility and ensure a balance in type of
project and geographic location; and
Whereas, Ohio Development Services Agency staff might also consider new or revised point scoring
categories for the set aside pool
thereby increasing the differentiation among projects and creating
opportunities to fund projects in
greater alignment with the Agency’s
objectives; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
requests the Ohio Development Services Agency to make policy revisions to existing criteria related to
the Ohio Preservation Tax Credit in
order to create a more equitable playing field for smaller-scale projects.
Section 2. That the Clerk of the
Council is directed to transmit copies
of this resolution to the administrative body of the Ohio Development
Services Agency
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1399-14.
By Council Members Conwell,
Pruitt, Reed, Cimperman, K. Johnson,
Cleveland, Mitchell, Dow, Polensek, J.
Johnson, Brady, Brancatelli, Kelley,
Cummins, Zone, Sweeney and Keane.
An emergency resolution recognizing the importance of public transportation to the future of our city.
Whereas, as an integral component of a Statewide Transit Needs
Study,
the
Ohio
Department
of
Transportation is conducting several regional meetings during the
month of October; and
Whereas, the purpose of the study
is to assess the current and future
needs of public transit and determine how much financial assistance
is needed from the State of Ohio;
and
Whereas,
the
Northeast
Ohio
region will hold its meeting on October 21, 2014 at the RTA offices in
downtown Cleveland; and
Whereas, key stakeholders will be
in attendance to discuss the importance of public transportation to the
City of Cleveland and to highlight
the growing need for RTA services
to reduce transportation inequity in
impoverished neighborhoods; and
Whereas, this council recognizes
that public transportation provides
citizens with a viable option to driving which, among other things, is
critical to getting to schools, jobs
and healthcare, and to reducing traffic congestion, parking needs and
traffic related negative environmental impact; and

1530

October 22, 2014
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
recognizes the importance of public
transportation to the future of our
city.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit copies
of this resolution to the Ohio Department of Transportation and the Board
of the Regional Transit Authority.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 848-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of constructing all necessary infrastructure needed for the
BKL Terminal Enhancement Program; authorizing the Director of
Port Control to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement; and
authorizing the Director to employ
one or more professional consultants
to design the improvement and to conduct a facilities assessment.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. Strike the title in its entirety
and insert “An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Director of
Port Control to employ one or more
professional consultants necessary
to
design
the
BKL
Terminal
Enhancement Program and to conduct a facilities assessment.”.
2. Strike Sections 1, 2 and 3 in
their entirety.
3. In existing Section 4, line 5,
strike “Improvement,” and insert
“BKL Terminal Enhancement Program”.
4. In existing Section 5, line 1,
strike “and other expenditures”.
5. Renumber existing Sections 4, 5,
and 6, to new “Section 1”, “Section
2”, and “Section 3”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

October 22, 2014
Ord. No. 1326-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 30, 34, 36, 37, 39 and 40 of Ordinance No. 385-14, passed March 31,
2014, as amended, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1328-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving
the collective bargaining agreement
with the Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent
Association Chief Dispatchers; and to
amend Section 15 of Ordinance No.
385-14, passed March 31, 2014, relating
to compensation for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:57 p.m. to meet on Monday, October 27, 2014, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

October 15, 2014
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, October 15,
2014 at 10:37 a.m. with Director
Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox, Rush, Southerington, Nichols,
Fumich and O’Leary.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla and McGrath.
Others:
Lynn
Peculis,
Acting
Director, Office of Equal Opportunity.
Matthew Spronz, Director, Mayor’s
Office of Capital Projects.
Tiffany
White,
Commissioner,
Division of Purchases & Supplies.

The City Record

13

On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 484-14.
By Director Dumas.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
801-14, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on July 16, 2014,
DeltaWRX LLC is selected from a
list of firms determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Finance as the firm to be
employed by contract to supplement
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to perform
an
information
technology
assessment and to prepare a fiveyear strategic plan for the Department of Public Safety’s information
technology systems.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Finance is authorized to
enter
into
a
contract
with
DeltaWRX LLC based upon its proposal dated March 31, 2014, which
contract shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, shall provide for
rendering the professional services
described in the proposal for an
fee
not
to
exceed
aggregate
$231,425.00, and shall contain such
additional provisions as the Director
of Law deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox, Rush, Southerington, Nichols
and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla, McGrath and O’Leary.
Resolution No. 485-14.
By Director Shaw.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractor
by
Middough
Inc.
under Contract No. PS2014*119 for
the professional services necessary
to provide electrical engineering services
for
the
Cleveland
Public
Power Expansion Program, on an
as-needed basis for a period of two
years, for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, is approved:
Subcontractor

Work
Percentage

SEL Engineering Services

$29,309.00
2.008%

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox, Rush, Southerington, Nichols
and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla, McGrath and O’Leary.
Resolution No. 486-14.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Nerone & Sons, Inc. for
the public improvement of Demolishing Existing and Constructing
New Incinerator Pump Station on
West 3rd Street (Base Bid All Items
including
the
10%
contingency
allowance)
for
the
Division
of
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, received on

1531

August 8, 2014, under the authority
of Ordinance No. 888-12, passed
August 8, 2012, upon a unit basis for
the improvement, in the aggregate
amount of $818,125.00, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
contract for the improvement with
the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Nerone & Sons, Inc. for the abovementioned public improvement is
approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

Coleman-Spohn

CSB/MBE/FBE
WORK

MBE(CSB/MBE)
$341,000.00(41.681%)

Timeline Photography
CSB(CSB/MBE)
$450.00(0.055%)
Ballast Fence

Herbst Electric

FBE(CSB/FBE)
$5,600.00(0.684%)
Non-certified
$39,930.00(4.881%)

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox, Rush, Southerington, Nichols
and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla, McGrath and O’Leary.
Resolution No. 487-14.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of USA Roofing, Inc. for the
public improvement of repairing or
replacing roofs and appurtenances,
including but not limited to roofing
systems
for
the
1201
Lakeside
Avenue Skylight Restoration and
Partial Roof Replacement, all items,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, received on
June 20, 2014, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 262-12, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on May 14,
2012, upon a unit basis for the
improvements to be performed as
ordered during a period of one year
starting upon execution of a contract, at the unit prices set forth in
the bid, which on the basis of the
estimated work to be done would
amount to $364,289.20, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director of Public
Utilities is requested to enter into a
public improvement by requirement
contract for the improvement.
The
public
improvement
by
requirement contract shall further
provide that the contractor will perform all the City’s requirements for
the work as may be ordered under
delivery orders separately certified
against the public improvement by
requirement contract, whether the
same shall be more or less than the
total estimate of work to be performed under the contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following subcontractors by USA Roofing, Inc. for the
above-mentioned
public
improvement by requirement contract is
approved:

The City Record

14
SUBCONTRACTORS

WORK
PERCENTAGE

River City Building
Solutions, LLC (FBE)

$ 11,410.00
3.132%

Roma Designs Construction
(MBE)
$ 30,000.00
8.235%
Johnson Erection Co.

$ 22,572.00
6.196%

Industrial First, Inc.

$163,000.00
44.745%

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox, Rush, Southerington, Nichols
and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla, McGrath and O’Leary.
Resolution No. 488-14.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Concord Road Equipment
Mfg., Inc. for an estimated quantity
of dump bodies, spreaders, and plow
equipment parts and labor, all items,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Works, for a period of one year,
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, with two one-year
renewal options, received on August
8, 2014 under the authority of Section 131.64 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $113,650.00
(Net), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Works is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services
specified.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the City’s requirements
for
the
goods
and/or
services,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox, Rush, Southerington, Nichols
and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla, McGrath and O’Leary.
Resolution No. 489-14.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Liberty Tire Services of
Ohio, LLC., for an estimated quantity of transfer and disposal of tires,
Bid 2, Item 1, for the Division of
Waste Collection, Department of
Public Works, for a period of two
years, beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
August 27, 2014 under the authority
of authority of Ordinance No. 429-14,
passed by City of Cleveland Council
on May 12, 2014, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount
to
$319,000.00
(Net),
is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Works is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services specified.

The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the City’s requirements
for
the
goods
and/or
services,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox, Rush, Southerington, Nichols
and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla, McGrath and O’Leary.
Resolution No. 490-14.
By Director McGrath.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1609-07, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on October
15, 2007, the City of Cleveland,
through the Director of Public Safety, entered into an agreement with
New World Systems Corporation,
City Contract No. 67608, for a period
of one year with two options to
renew for an additional one-year
period, for maintenance and technical support services for the Record
Management System, for the Divisions of Police, Fire, and EMS,
Department of Public Safety; and
Whereas, division (d) of Section
181.102 C.O. authorizes a director to
enter into an agreement with the
software vendor for professional services necessary to implement or
maintain the software, including but
not limited to, maintenance, repair,
upgrade, enhancements, and technical support; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 C.O., the City intends
to enter into an agreement with
New World Systems Corporation to
obtain the professional maintenance
and technical support services necessary to maintain the Record Management System for one year starting July 1, 2014; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under division (e) of Section 181.102
C.O., the compensation to be paid for
maintenance and technical support
services to be performed under the
agreement with New World Systems
Corporation, is fixed at an amount
not to exceed $184,532.00.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox, Rush, Southerington, Nichols
and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla, McGrath and O’Leary.
Resolution No. 491-14.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 125-31-067 located at 3413 East
69th Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and

1532

October 22, 2014
Whereas, Virginia May Billings
and Dale Russ Billings have proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 12 has either approved the
proposed sale or has not disapproved or requested a hold of the
proposed sale within 45 days of notification of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Virginia May
Billings and Dale Russ Billings for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 125-31-067 located at
3413 East 69th Street, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox, Rush, Southerington, Nichols
and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla, McGrath and O’Leary.
Resolution No. 492-14.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 105-28-007 located at 1097 East
71st Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Judy Compton and Mary
Helbert have proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcel for
yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that

October 22, 2014
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Judy Compton
and Mary Helbert for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
No. 105-28-007 located at 1097 East
71st Street, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox, Rush, Southerington, Nichols
and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla, McGrath and O’Leary.
Resolution No. 493-14.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent No.
105-23-058 located at 1256 East 71st
Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to lease Land Reutilization Program parcels; and
Whereas, Louis Anderson has proposed to the City to lease and develop the parcel for community garden;
and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has either approved the proposed lease or has not disapproved
or requested a hold of the proposed
lease within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed lessee of the parcel is neither tax delinquent nor in
violation of the Building and Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute a lease for a
term of three (3) years, for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland, with
Louis Anderson for the lease and
development of Permanent Parcel
No. 105-23-058 located at 1256 East
71st Street, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the lease of the parcel shall be a one-time fee of $3.00,
which amount is determined to be

The City Record
not less than the fair market value
of the parcel for uses according to
the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox, Rush, Southerington, Nichols
and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla, McGrath and O’Leary.
Resolution No. 494-14.
By Director Spronz.
Whereas, on June 26, 2014, the
City of Cleveland entered into Contract No. PI2014*024 with Karvo
Paving, Inc. for the Fleet Avenue
Rehabilitation Project, for the Office
of Capital Projects, in the aggregate
amount of $8,856,419.38; and
Whereas,
Karvo
Paving,
Inc.
desires to utilize certain subcontractors
under
Contract
No.
PI2014*024 for which it requires previous written consent of the Board
of Control under Section 185.36 C.O.;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the employment of the followsubcontractors
by
Karvo
ing
Paving, Inc. under City Contract No.
PI2014*024, Fleet Avenue Rehabilitation Project, is approved.
Terrace Construction, Inc.
$644,091.52(7.50%)

15
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2014
9:30 A.M.

RAR Contracting Co., Inc.
$495,292.00(5.59%)
Rath Construction, Inc.
$317,993.49(3.59%)
TraffTech, Inc.
$107,543.92(1.21%)
Dot Diamond Core Drilling, Inc.
$85,000.00(0.96%)
Byers Sign, Inc.
$42,107.00(0.48%)
BL Companies, Inc.
$39,294.37(0.44%)
Buckeye Pipe Inspection, Inc.
$23,524.20(0.27%)
Cleveland Barricading Systems, Inc.
$22,000.00(0.25%)
Workzone Video, LLC
$834.00(0.01%)
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox, Rush, Southerington, Nichols,
Fumich and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla and McGrath.
KEITH D. SCHEURMAN,
Acting Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.

1533

Calendar No. 14-193: 3650 East 143rd
Street (Ward 2)
Shelda Brantley, owner, proposes
to change use from a two-family
dwelling unit to a Senior Home on
a parcel located in a B1 Two-Family Residential District. The owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application of the following sections
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
Section 337.03 which states that by
reference in Section 337.02(f)(3)(F)
as permitted in a One-Family Residential District a home for the aged
is permitted if located 30 feet away
from any adjoining premises in a
Residence District not used for a
similar
purpose
and
subject
to
Board of Zoning Appeals approval.
Section 349.04(d) which states that
5 accessory off-street parking spaces
are required and 2 are proposed.
(Filed September 30, 2014)
Calendar No. 14-194: 3393 East 147th
Street (Ward 1)
Shelda Brantley, owner, proposes
to change use from a 6 dwelling
unit to a Group Home for 30 clients
and 2 to 3 full time staff on a parcel located in a B1 Multi-Family
Residential
District.
The
owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application of the following section
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
Section 337.08(e)(5) which states
that Hospitals, sanitariums, nursing,
rest or convalescent homes, not primarily for contagious diseases nor
for the care of epileptics or drug or
liquor patients, nor for the care of
the insane or feeble-minded, are
required to be not less than fifteen
feet from an adjoining premises in
a residential district and the proposed use is less than 15 feet away.
(Filed September 30, 2014)

16
Calendar No. 14-197: 2041 West 11th
Place (Ward 3)
Robert Yarosh, owner, proposes to
erect a 42' - 6" x 25' - 6" and 4 story
frame single family residence with
attached garage on a 56' - 7" x
approximately 32' parcel located in
a B1 Multi-Family Residential District. The owner appeals for relief
from the following sections of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
Section 327.02(e) which states that
all Lot Splits, Consolidations and
Easements requires approval by
Engineering and Construction.
Section 355.04(b) which states that
the maximum gross floor area shall
not exceed 50 percent of the lot area
or in this case 755 square feet and
1,430 square feet are proposed. This
Section also requires a minimum lot
area of 4,800 square feet for a single family home and 1500 square
feet are proposed.
Section 357.04(a) requires a front
yard setback of 4' - 6" and 3' are
proposed.
Section 357.08(b)(1) requires a
rear yard of 17' - 6" and 1' - 7" are
proposed.
Section 357.09(2)(A) which states
that the total width of the side
yards on the same premises shall be
not less than 10 feet and a total of
8' are proposed. Also, no building
shall be less than 10 feet from a
main building on an adjoining lot
and 5' - 8" are proposed.
Section 357.09(2)(B) which states
that the minimum width of the interior side yard shall in no case be
less than
the height of the main
building or in this case 10'; the
appellant is proposing 0' and 8' for
the interior side yards. (Filed October 3, 2014)
Calendar No. 14-198: 2051 West 11th
Place (Ward 3)
Robert Yarosh, owner, proposes to
erect a 42' - 6" x 25' - 6" and 4 story
frame single family residence with
attached garage on a parcel located
in a B1 Multi-Family Residential
District. The owner appeals for
relief from the following sections of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
Section 327.02(e) which states that
all Lot Splits, Consolidations and
Easements
require
approval
by
Engineering and Construction.
Section 355.04(b) which states that
the maximum gross floor area shall
not exceed 50 percent of the lot area
or in this case 732 square feet and
1,430 square feet are proposed. This
Section also requires a minimum lot
area of 4,800 square feet for a single family home and 1,464 square
feet are proposed.
Section 357.04(a) requires a front
yard setback of 4' - 6" and 3' are
proposed.
Section 357.08(b) (1) requires a
rear yard of 17' - 6" and 3' are proposed.
Section 357.09(2)(A) which states
that the total width of the side
yards on the same premises shall be
not less than 10 feet and a total of
3' are proposed. Also, no building
shall be less than 10 feet from a
main building on an adjoining lot
and the appellant is proposing 4' 10" from Pelton Court and 0' on
West 11th Place.
Section 357.09(2)(B) which states
that the minimum width of the interior side yard shall in no case be
less than
the height of the main

The City Record

October 22, 2014

building or in this case 9'; the
appellant is proposing 0' and 3' for
the interior side yards. (Filed October 3, 2014)

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

Calendar No. 14-199: 2450 Professor
Street (Ward 3)
Dan Larsen, owner, proposes to
erect a 20' x 55' 3 story frame threefamily residence on a parcel located
in a B1 Two-Family Residential District. The owner appeals for relief
from the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances:
Section 337.02 which states that
three-family residence is no a permitted us in a Two-Family Residential District.
Section 349.05(a) which states that
no parking spaces shall be located
within 10 feet of any wall of a residential structure with ground floor
windows that provide light and ventilation.
Section 349.07(a) which requires
that all maneuvering areas shall be
properly graded for drainage so that
all water is drained within the lot
area, surfaced with concrete or
asphaltic or similar material.
Section 349.07(b) which state that
accessory off-street parking spaces
require wheel or bumper guards so
that no part of a parked vehicle will
extend beyond such parking space.
Section 355.04(a) which states that
the required minimum lot area for a
multi-family use is 7,200 square feet
and 3,297 square feet are proposed.
Section 357.09(C) which states
that the required interior side yards
must equal 8 feet and 3 feet are proposed.
Section 357.13(b)(4) which states
that open front porches require 10
feet to front of property line and 6
feet are proposed. (Filed October 3,
2014)

MONDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2014

Calendar No. 14-200: 1952 Columbus
Road (Ward 3)
Robert Biggar, owner, proposes to
convert a warehouse to a single
family dwelling on a parcel located
in a C3 Semi-Industry District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application of the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
Section 345.03(b) which states that
in
a
Semi-Industry
District
no
dwelling house can be established
within 200 feet of a General Industry District and the proposed property is within 200 feet of the General Industry District to the north.
Section 357.01(c) which states that
residence buildings in a Semi-Industry District require rear and side
yards.
Section 357.08(b)(2) which states
that a rear yard of 20 feet is
required and a 10 foot rear yard is
proposed.
Section 357.09(b)(2)(b) no side
yard shall be less than three feet in
width for an interior lot, nor shall
the aggregate width of the side
yards on the same premises be less
than 10 feet and no interior side
yards are proposed.
Section 355.04(b) which states that
in a “C” Area District the maximum
gross floor area of a dwelling cannot exceed one-half the lot size or
1,855 in this case and 2,470 square
feet are proposed. (Filed October 6,
2014)
Secretary

1534

At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, October
20, 2014, the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 14-172: 3478 West 44th
Street
Denise Moore-Toth, owner, proposes to establish use as food storage
and distribution, a meeting place for
a non-profit and two dwelling units;
to construct a new garage and new
parking area on a parcel located in
a B1 Two Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-178: 2081 Murray
Hill Road
Steve Bucchieri, owner, proposes
to renovate the existing four unit
apartment building to five units,
demolish garage and add a new concrete drive apron on a parcel located in a C1 Multi-Family Residential
District.
Calendar No. 14-181: 4224 Bridge
Avenue
Phil Woodcock, owner, proposes to
erect a 23’ - 9” x 26’ 2 story frame
reverse gable accessory garage on a
parcel located in a B1 Two-Family
Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-183: 7250 Brookpark
Road
Speedway LLC, owner, proposes to
construct a new gas station and convenience store on a parcel located in
a C1 General Retail Business District and a C3 Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 14-189: 1202 Kenilworth
Avenue
Ukrainian Museum Archives, LLC,
owner proposes to establish a parking lot on a parcel located in a C1
General Retail Business District
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

were

None.
The following appeal was WITHDRAWN:
Calendar No. 14-177: 11611 Euclid
Avenue
JJAM MGMT., owner, and E. 116th
& Euclid LLC prospective purchaser
proposes to erect a 5 story mixeduse building addition consisting of
53 apartments over retail on a corner parcel located in an E3 General
Retail Business District and an E2
Multi-Family Residential District.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.
The following appeal was POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 14-191: Iglesia Hispana
Pentecostal
4215 Robert Avenue. Postponed to
November 17, 2014.

The City Record

October 22, 2014
The following appeals were heard
by the Board on October 13, 2014 and
the decisions were adopted and
approved on October 20, 2014:

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

None.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 14-156: 3332 Scranton
Road
Sotre
Properties
appealed
for
relief from the strict application of
Section 357.13 of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances which states that
the condensing units are not permitted yard encroachments.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
Calendar No. 14-179: Mobile Food
Shop at Dock 32
Emmanuel
Tsambounieris
appeals under the authority of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d)
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances from being denied an application to locate a Mobile Food Shop
at the location of Dock 32 on
Erieside Avenue by the Cleveland
City Council.
Calendar No. 14-180: Mobile Food
Shop at Coast Guard Lots #9 &
#10
Emmanuel Tsambounieris appeals
under the authority of Section 76-6
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances from
being
denied
an
application
to
locate a Mobile Food Shop at the
location of Coast Guard Lots #9 and
#10 west of the parking lot and
north of North Marginal Road by the
Cleveland City Council.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Department of Public Safety,
City of Cleveland
Regarding a Residential Permit
Parking Area proposed for the East
118th Street/Wade Park Avenue
area.
The hearing will be held in the
Community Room at Public Safety
Central, 2001 Payne Avenue, on
Thursday, November 6, 2014, at
11:00 a.m. Free parking is available
on Payne Ave. in front of the building.
October 22, 2014, October 29, 2014 and
November 5, 2014

Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2014
File No. 123-14 — Automotive and
Truck Parts and Service, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2014 AT 11:00
A.M. THE DIVISION OF WATER
POLLUTION
CONTROL,
RED
CONFERENCE
ROOM,
12302
KIRBY AVENUE, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44108.

17
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2014
AT 10:00 A.M. CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
2ND FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE ROOM, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
October 15, 2014 and October 22, 2014
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2014
File No. 122-14 — Labor and Materials
for
Maintenance,
Repair,
Enhance and/or Replacement of
Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning
Systems,
Including
Rental for the Various Divisions
of The Department of Public Utilities (Re-Bid), for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1340-13, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, November 11, 2013.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2014
AT 11:00 A.M. CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
2ND FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE ROOM, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
October 15, 2014 and October 22, 2014
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2014
File No. 125-14 — Bunker Gear Suits,
Including, but not Limited to,
Proximity
Pants,
Proximity
Coats,
Hoods,
Helmets,
Suspenders and Boots for Various
Divisions of Department of Port
Control, for the various Divisions
of Port Control, Department of
Port Control, as authorized by
Section 181.101 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
MONDAY,
NOVEMBER 10, 2014 AT 10:00
A.M. THE DEPARTMENT OF
PORT CONTROL, CLEVELAND
HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S, AIRPORT RESCUE
FIRE
FIGHTING
BUILDING,
5651 POSTAL ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135-3193.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
October 22, 2014 and October 29, 2014
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2014

October 15, 2014 and October 22, 2014
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2014
File No. 121-14 — Purchase of Labor
and
Materials
Necessary
to
Repair, Replace or Maintain Various Types of Valves, Actuators,
and Appurtenances, for the Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 850-14, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, August 20, 2014.

1535

File No. 124-14 — Ridge Road Transfer Station Truck Scale Improvements Phase 2, for the Division
of Architecture and Site Development,
Department
of
Public
Works and the Mayor’s Office of
Capital Projects, as authorized by
Section 185.01 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE

The City Record

18
AMOUNT OF TWENTY FIVE
DOLLARS ($25.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2014 AT
10:00 A.M. THE CLEVELAND
CITY HALL, ROOM 517A, 601
LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only
registered Plan Holders will
receive Addenda. Bids cannot be
accepted from Bidders who only
purchase plans from other entities such as Plan Rooms and/or
who fail to register to be on the
City of Cleveland Plan Holders
List.
October 22, 2014 and October 29, 2014

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 1363-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 5106
Franklin Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from Ali S.
Alawi,
DBA
Dairy
Deli,
5106
Franklin Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
Number
44102,
Permanent
00895050005 to A & A, Inc., DBA
Ohio
City
Deli,
5106
Franklin
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number 0007629; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder
and/or has demonstrated that he
has operated his liquor business in
disregard of the laws, regulations
or local ordinances of this state or
any other state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements
of
the
governing
body of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the
establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit from Ali S. Alawi, DBA Dairy
Deli, 5106 Franklin Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number
00895050005 to A & A, Inc., DBA Ohio
City Deli, 5106 Franklin Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent
Number 0007629; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

Res. No. 1364-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 1293 West 9th Street and repealing Resolution No. 921-13, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A
and D6 Liquor Permit to Tomo
Hibachi Restaurant and Lounge,
LLC, 1293 West 9th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Numbers 8980087, 8980087-0003, 89800870004, 8980087-0005 by Resolution No.
921-13 adopted by the Council on
July 10, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit to Tomo Hibachi
Restaurant and Lounge, LLC, 1293
West 9th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44113, Permanent Numbers 8980087,
8980087-0003, 8980087-0004, 89800870005 be, and the same are hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 921-13, containing such objection, be and the
same are hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.

1536

October 22, 2014
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

Res. No. 1365-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit at 4506 Lorain Avenue, 1st
floor and repealing Resolution No.
1015-14, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Lorain
Avenue Super Mercabo, Inc., DBA
Ohio City Mini Mart, 4506 Lorain
Avenue, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent No. 5262570 by Resolution No. 1015-14 adopted by the
Council on August 20, 2014; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit to Lorain Avenue
Super Mercabo, Inc., DBA Ohio City
Mini Mart, 4506 Lorain Avenue, 1st
floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent No. 5262570, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1015-14, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

Res. No. 1371-14.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 756 East
200th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for a New C1
Liquor Permit at Salaam & Lean,
Inc., DBA East Mini Mart, 756 East
200th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119,
Permanent Number 7677880; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and

October 22, 2014
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Salaam & Lean, Inc.,
DBA East Mini Mart, 756 East 200th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent Number 7677880; and requests
the Superintendent of Liquor Control
to set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

Res. No. 1379-14.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of stock of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to 6206 Broadway
Avenue N/end.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for a transfer
of stock of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at United Convenient Market,
Inc., DBA Broadway Food Mart, 6206
Broadway Avenue N/end, Cleveland,
44127,
Permanent
Number
Ohio
9159165; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to

The City Record
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a transfer of
stock of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at
United Convenient Market, Inc., DBA
Broadway Food Mart, 6206 Broadway
Avenue N/end, Cleveland, Ohio 44127,
Permanent Number 9159165, and
requests the Superintendent of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

Res. No. 1380-14.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of liquor license of a
D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to 5379 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of liquor license of a D1, D2, D3,

1537

19
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Lucic Enterprises, Inc., DBA Lucics,
1204 Old River Road Mezzanine &
Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 5337947 to Lucic Enterprises, Inc., DBA Lucics, 5379 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
Permanent Number 53369470001; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit from Lucic Enterprises, Inc., DBA Lucics, 1204 Old
River Road Mezzanine & Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number
5337947 to Lucic Enterprises, Inc.,
DBA Lucics, 5379 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent
Number 53369470001; and requests the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

The City Record

20

October 22, 2014

Ord. No. 1421-12.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An ordinance changing the Use District of land on the southwest corner of Dolloff Road and Anson Ave. from Two
Family Residential to Open Space and Recreation (Map Change Number 2408).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Dolloff Road with the centerline of Anson Avenue;
Thence Southeasterly along said centerline of Dolloff Road to its intersection with the centerline of Barkwill Avenue;
Thence Southwesterly along said centerline of Barkwill Avenue to its intersection with the Southeasterly prolongation of the Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 47 in Barkwill and Jackson’s Subdivision of part of Original Lot No. 320 in
Newburgh Township as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 7, Page 7 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Northwesterly along said Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 47 and its Southeasterly prolongation to a Northwesterly line thereof;
Thence Southwesterly along said Northwesterly line of Sublot No. 47 to a Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 65 in said
Barkwill and Jackson’s Subdivision;
Thence Northwesterly along said Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 65 and its Northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Anson Avenue;
Thence Northeasterly along said centerline of Anson Avenue to the principal place of beginning.
is changed to an Open Space and Recreation District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2408 and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective November 12, 2014.

1538

October 22, 2014

The City Record

21

Ord. No. 1422-12.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An ordinance changing the Use District of land on the southwest side of Track Road between Nursery Street and
House Avenue to Two Family Residential and a 1 Height District (Map Change Number 2409).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Nursery Street with the centerline of Track Road;
Thence Southeasterly along said centerline of Track Road to its intersection with the centerline of Sawtell Road;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of Sawtell Road to its intersection with the centerline of House Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said centerline of House Avenue to its intersection with the Southerly prolongation of the
Easterly line of Sublot No. 74 in the N. P. Glazier Subdivision of part of Original Lot No. 324 in Newburgh Township as
shown on the plat recorded in Volume 4, Page 40 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of Sublot No. 74, its Southerly prolongation and its Northerly prolongation
to its intersection with the centerline of Glazier Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said centerline of Glazier Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of Victor Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of Victor Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the
Northerly line of Sublot No. 61 in said N. P. Glazier Subdivision;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 61 and its Easterly prolongation to the Easterly line of Sublot
No. 45 in said N. P. Glazier Subdivision;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of Sublot No. 45 and the Easterly lines of Sublot Nos. 44 thru 40 inclusive in
said N. P. Glazier Subdivision to the Northerly line of said Sublot No. 40;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 40 and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the
said centerline of Nursery Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of Nursery Street to the principal place of beginning.
Are changed to Two Family Residential and a ‘1’ Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2409, and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective November 12, 2014.

1539

22

The City Record

October 22, 2014

Ord. No. 1426-12.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An ordinance changing the Use and Area Districts of land on both sides of E. 49th Street between Jewett Avenue south
to the railroad to Two Family Residential District and a ‘B’ Area District (Map Change Number 2414).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Jewett Avenue with the centerline of East 49th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of East 49th Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the
Southerly line of Sublot No. 2 in James H. Cannon’s Allotment of part of Original Lot No. 324 in Newburgh Township as
shown on the plat recorded in Volume 10, Page 23 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of Sublot No. 2 and its Westerly prolongation a Southwesterly line thereof;
Thence Southeasterly along said Southwesterly line of Sublot No. 2 and the Southwesterly lines of Sublot Nos. 3 and 4
in said James H. Cannon’s Allotment to the Southeasterly line of said Sublot No. 4;
Thence Northeasterly along said Southeasterly line of Sublot No. 4 to the Southwesterly line of land conveyed to
Sherold Lee Brake by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200501200164 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 123-30-009;
Thence Southeasterly along said Southwesterly line of land conveyed to Sherold Lee Brake and its Southeasterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Pershing Avenue;
Thence Southwesterly along said centerline of Pershing Avenue to its intersection with the Northwesterly prolongation of the Southwesterly line of land conveyed to Church of God Dolloff Road, Inc. by deed recorded in Volume 94-09259,
Page 45 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 123-30-010;
Thence Southeasterly along said Southwesterly line of land conveyed to Church of God Dolloff Road, Inc. and its
Northwesterly prolongation to a Northwesterly line of land conveyed to Elijah N. Masathi by deed recorded in Auditor’s
File Number 200411290788 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 123-30-056;
Thence Southwesterly along said Northwesterly line of land conveyed to Elijah N. Masathi and its Southwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Dolloff Road;
Thence Southeasterly along said centerline of Dolloff Road to its intersection with the Northeasterly prolongation of
the Northwesterly line of Sublot No. 23 in the Phineas Dolloff Subdivision of part of Original Lot Nos. 320 and 324 in Newburgh Township as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 8, Page 35 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Southwesterly along said Northwesterly line of Sublot No. 23 and its Northeasterly prolongation to the Southwesterly line thereof;
Thence Southeasterly along said Southwesterly line of Sublot No. 23 and the Southwesterly lines of Sublot Nos. 22 thru
15 inclusive in said Phineas Dolloff Subdivision to a Southerly line of Sublot No. 14 in said Phineas Dolloff Subdivision;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of Sublot No. 14 and the Southerly line of Sublot No. 13 in said Phineas
Dolloff Subdivision to the Westerly line of land conveyed to Paul Junior Lester and Rosetta Lester by deed recorded in
Volume 12590, Page 871 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 123-30-078;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of land conveyed to Paul Junior Lester and Rosetta Lester and the Westerly line of land conveyed to Juan A. Hernandez and Maria D. Hernandez by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number
200405031429 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel
Number 123-30-077 to a Northerly line of Sublot No. 7 in the J. Rockert Allotment of part of Original Lot No. 320 in Newburgh Township as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 11, Page 29 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 7 to an Easterly line of Sublot No. 6 in said J. Rockert Allotment;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of Sublot No. 6 to a Northerly line thereof;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 6 and the Northerly line of Sublot No. 5 in said J. Rockert Allotment to the Westerly line thereof;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of Sublot No. 5 and its Southerly prolongation to its intersection with centerline of McBride Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said centerline of McBride Avenue to its intersection with the Northerly prolongation of the
Westerly line of Sublot No. 68 in the Sheldon, Frazee and Canfield Allotment of part of Original Lot No. 320 in Newburgh
Township as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 9, Page 5 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of Sublot No. 68, its Northerly prolongation and the Westerly line of Sublot
No. 40 in said Sheldon, Frazee and Canfield Allotment, its Southerly prolongation and the Westerly line of Sublot No. 33
in said Sheldon, Frazee and Canfield Allotment and the Westerly line of Sublot No. 89 in Barkwill and Jackson’s Subdivision of part of Original Lot No. 320 in Newburgh Township as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 7, Page 7 of Cuyahoga County Map Records, its Southerly prolongation and the Westerly lines of Sublot Nos. 81 and 28 in said Barkwill
and Jackson’s Subdivision, their Southerly prolongation and the Westerly line of Sublot No. 20 in said Barkwill and Jackson’s Subdivision and the Westerly line of Sublot No. 4 in the Hickox, Hosmer and Smith’s Allotment of part of Original
Lot No. 320 in Newburgh Township as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 8, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County Map Records
to the centerline of Hamm Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said centerline of Hamm Avenue to its intersection with the Northerly prolongation of the
Westerly line of land conveyed to Marvin Dale Godbey and Sandra Ann Godbey by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 199912140527 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent
Parcel Number 131-20-001;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of land conveyed to Marvin Dale Godbey and Sandra Ann Godbey and its
Northerly prolongation to a Southerly line thereof;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of land conveyed to Marvin Dale Godbey and Sandra Ann Godbey to the
Westerly line of Sublot No. 39 in said Hickox, Hosmer and Smith’s Allotment;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of Sublot No. 39 and the Westerly line of Sublot No. 45 in said Hickox, Hosmer and Smith’s Allotment and its Southerly prolongation to the centerline of Guy Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said centerline of Guy Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of East 49th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of East 49th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Nuss Road;
Thence Southwesterly along said centerline of Nuss Road to its intersection with the Westerly and irregular Limited
Access Right-of-way of the Willow Freeway, known as State Route 21 and Interstate 77;

1540

October 22, 2014

The City Record

23

Thence Northerly along said Westerly and irregular Limited Access Right-of-way of the Willow Freeway to its intersection with the Northeasterly right-of-way of Reid Street;
Thence Northeasterly to a Northwesterly corner of land conveyed to Marvin Dale Godbey by deed recorded in Volume
14670, Page 315 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 131-18-010 and being on the Easterly and irregular Limited Access Right-of-way of the Willow Freeway,
known as State Route 21 and Interstate 77;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly and irregular Limited Access Right-of-way of the Willow Freeway to its intersection with the centerline of Barkwill Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said centerline of Barkwill Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of East 49th Place;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of East 49th Place to its intersection with the centerline of said Jewitt Avenue;
Thence Easterly along said centerline of Jewitt Avenue to the principal place of beginning.
Is changed to Two Family Residential District and a ‘B’ Area District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2414 and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective November 12, 2014.

1541

The City Record

24

October 22, 2014

Ord. No. 1427-12.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An ordinance changing the Use and Area Districts of land on the south side of Hamm Avenue at the intersection of E.
52nd Street to Two Family Residential and a ‘B’ Area District (Map Change Number 2415).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Hamm Avenue with the Northerly prolongation of the Easterly line
of land conveyed to Slavia Bugarcic by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200812220341 of Cuyahoga County Deed
Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 131-20-100;
Thence Easterly along said centerline of Hamm Avenue to its intersection with the Northerly prolongation of the
Westerly line of Sublot No. 116 in the Heisel, Hamm, Wagner and Heighermann’s Allotment of part of Original Lot Nos.
316, 320 and 321 in Newburgh Township as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 6, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of Sublot No. 116 and its Northerly prolongation to the Northerly line of
Sublot No. 119 in said Heisel, Hamm, Wagner and Heighermann’s Allotment;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 119, its Westerly prolongation and the Northerly line of Sublot
No. 190 in said Heisel, Hamm, Wagner and Heighermann’s Allotment to the Easterly line of Sublot No. 62 in the Hickox,
Hosmer and Smith’s Allotment of part of Original Lot No. 320 in Newburgh Township as shown on the plat recorded in
Volume 8, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of Sublot No. 62 the Northerly line thereof;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 62 to the said Easterly line of land conveyed to Slavia Bugarcic;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of land conveyed to Slavia Bugarcic and its Northerly prolongation to the
principal place of beginning.
is changed to a Two Family Residential District and a ‘B’ Area District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2415 and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective November 12, 2014.

1542

October 22, 2014

The City Record

25

Ord. No. 1469-12.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An ordinance changing the Use Districts of lands located on the south side of Track Road west of E. 55 St. to Sawtell
Rd. to Residence Industry (Map Change Number 2425).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Sawtell Road with the centerline of Track Road N.W.;
Thence Northeasterly and perpendicular to the centerline of Track Road N.W. to the centerline of Track Road S.E.;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of Track Road to its intersection with the northeasterly prolongation of
the centerline of E. 55th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of East 55th Street to its intersection with the centerline of McBride Street;
Thence Southwesterly along said centerline of McBride Street to its intersection with the centerline of Cowan Street;
Thence Northwesterly along said centerline of Cowan Street to its intersection with the centerline of Fowler Avenue;
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Fowler Avenue to its intersection with the Southeasterly prolongation
of the Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 21 in Edwin Fowler’s Subdivision of part of Original Lot No. 324 in Newburgh
Township as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 11, Page 44 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Northwesterly along said Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 21 and its Southeasterly prolongation to the Southeasterly line of land conveyed to Leora M. Zimmer, transfer on death to Leo A. Zimmer and Isabell Westcott, by deed
recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200904100025 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as
Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 123-22-102;
Thence Northeasterly along said Southeasterly line of land conveyed to Leora M. Zimmer, transfer on death to Leo A.
Zimmer and Isabell Westcott, to a Northeasterly line thereof;
Thence Northwesterly along said Northeasterly line of land conveyed to Leora M. Zimmer, transfer on death to Leo A.
Zimmer and Isabell Westcott, and its Northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Pershing
Avenue;
Thence Southwesterly along said centerline of Pershing Avenue to its intersection with the Southeasterly prolongation of the Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 15 in the E. N. Cannon Subdivision of part of Original Lot No. 324 in Newburgh
Township as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 4, Page 25 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Northwesterly along said Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 15 and its Southeasterly prolongation to the Southerly line of Sublot No. 33 in the Abel Mead’s Allotment of part of Original Lot No. 324 in Newburgh Township as shown on
the plat recorded in Volume 4, Page 41 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Westerly along said Southerly line of Sublot No. 33 to the Easterly line of Sublot No. 32 in said Abel Mead’s
Allotment;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of Sublot No. 32 and its Northerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Mead Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said centerline of Mead Avenue to an angle point therein;
Thence Northerly and perpendicular to said centerline of Mead Avenue to the centerline of Mead Court;
Thence Westerly along said centerline of Mead Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of Sawtell Road;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of Sawtell Road to its intersection with the centerline of Finn Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said centerline of Finn Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of Sawtell Road;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of Sawtell Road to the principal place of beginning.
are changed to a Residence Industry District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2425 and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective November 12, 2014.

1543

The City Record

26

October 22, 2014

Ord. No. 858-14.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An ordinance changing the Use, area and Height Districts of lands located on the northeast corner of West 135th Street
and Lorain Avenue to Multi-Family Residential, a ‘D’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District (Map Change No. 2492).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as
Beginning in the centerline of Lorain Avenue at its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of
W. 135th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of W 135th St to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Willie T Cox by deed dated August 6, 1985 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number
V85544360027 said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 021-34-065;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line thereof;
Thence northerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly line thereof;
Thence easterly along said northerly line to its intersection with the westerly line of Sublot No. 16 in the Lorain Villas (Settlement Property Company) Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 59, Page 16 of Cuyahoga County
Map Records;
Thence southerly along said westerly line and its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the southwesterly
prolongation of the southerly line of Sublot No. 11 in said allotment;
Thence northeasterly along said prolongation and southerly line and its northeasterly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of Berea Road;
Thence southerly along the centerline of Berea Road to its intersection with the centerline of Lorain Avenue;
Thence westerly along the centerline of Lorain Avenue to its intersection with the place of origin;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Multi-Family District, a ‘D’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District.
Section 2. That the change of zoning of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2492, and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective November 12, 2014.

1544

October 22, 2014

The City Record

27

Ord. No. 994-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance establishing new mapped setbacks on parcels located on the north side of Marquardt Avenue between
West 7th Street and West 5th Street as shown on the attached map (Map Change No. 2503).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the mapped building front setback of parcels fronting on the north side of Marquardt Avenue between
West 7th Street and West 5th Street is changed to 5 feet as shown on the attached map and further described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of West 7th Street at its intersection with the southwesterly prolongation of the centerline
of Marquardt Avenue;
Thence northwesterly along said centerline of West 7th Street to its intersection with a line drawn 5 feet northerly of
and parallel to the southeasterly line of Sublot Number 685 in the College Tract Subdivision shown on the recorded plat
in Volume 2, Page 32 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northeasterly along said parallel line to its intersection with the centerline of West 5th Street;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of West 5th Street to its intersection with the northeasterly prolongation
of southerly line of Sublot Number 719 in the aforementioned College Tract Subdivision;
Thence southwesterly along said prolongation of said southerly line and along its southwesterly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of West 7th Street;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of West 7th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Marquardt
Avenue and the principal place of beginning.
Section 2. That the change of zoning of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2503, and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective November 12, 2014.

1545

28
Ord. No. 1126-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to apply for
and accept one or more grants from
the Western Reserve Area Agency on
Aging for 2015 Western Reserve Area
Agency on Aging Programs, including Supportive Services and Aging
and Disability Resource Center Programs; and authorizing the director
to accept gifts from any public or private entity for the purposes of this
grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Aging is authorized to apply for and
accept one or more grants in the
approximate amount of $320,000 per
year during the grant term, and any
other funds that may become available during the grant term from the
Western Reserve Area Agency on
Aging for 2015 Western Reserve Area
Agency on Aging Programs, including Supportive Services and Aging
and Disability Resource Center Programs; that the Director of Aging is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes set forth in the summary
for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 1126-14-A, is made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten, is
approved in all respects, and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Aging is authorized to accept gifts of
cash, materials, or equipment from
any public or private agency for the
purposes of this grant. The Director is
further authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary
to receive the funds accepted under
this ordinance, and upon acceptance
of the funds by the Director, they
shall be appropriated for the purposes
of this ordinance.
Section 4. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Aging may sign all documents and
do all things that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process. The contracts will be
paid from the fund or funds to which
are credited any grant funds accepted
under this ordinance, and cash donations.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1127-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
Cuyahoga County for the 2013 State
Homeland Security Program – GAP;
and authorizing the purchase by one
or more written standard and requirement purchase contracts needed to
implement the grant, for the Division
of Police, Department of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $221,074.20, and any other
funds that may become available during the grant term from Cuyahoga
County to conduct the 2013 State
Homeland Security Program – GAP;
that the Director is authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the award letter and sample agreement with the County for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the award letter and
sample agreement with the County
for the grant, presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
a public hearing on this legislation
and set forth in File No. 1127-14-A, is
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, is approved in all
respects, and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to extend the
term of the grant during the grant
term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to make one
or more written contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or
all of the following items: a thermal
imaging system downlink upgrade
and a water rescue team response
vehicle, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis, for the Division of
Police, Department of Public Safety.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to make one
or more written standard purchase
contracts and written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the period of requirements
to be determined by the director, for
the necessary items of materials,
equipment, supplies, and services necessary to construct the Improvement,
including labor and materials if necessary, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Department of
Public Safety. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines.
Section 6. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of

1546

October 22, 2014
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 7. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Safety may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 8. That the costs of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

Ord. No. 1128-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
employ one or more companies to provide equipment, video management,
storage and security solutions, software, and training needed to implement a body-worn camera system for
the Division of Police, including managed storage, warranty, upgrades,
replacement equipment, maintenance
and other related services for a period
up to five years; and to enter into various written standard purchase and
requirement contracts for the necessary items of materials, equipment,
supplies, and services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more companies for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of
the several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to provide
equipment, video management, security and storage solutions, software,
and training needed to implement a
body-worn camera system for the
Division of Police, including managed storage, warranties, upgrades,
replacement equipment, maintenance
and other related services for period
up to five years.
The selection of the companies for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Safety from a
list of qualified companies available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Safety for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services

October 22, 2014
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Safety, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to make one
or more written standard purchase
contracts and written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the period of requirements
to be determined by the Director, for
the necessary items of materials,
equipment, supplies, and services
which are not provided under the contract authorized in Section 1 of this
ordinance, including labor and materials if needed, and are necessary to
implement this ordinance, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Division of Police, Department
of Public Safety. Bids shall be taken
in a manner that permits an award to
be made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines.
Section 3. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 4. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Safety may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 5. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 553, 20 SF
562, and from any other funds
approved by the Director of Finance
for this purpose. (RQN 6001, RL 201339 and RQS 6001, RL 2014-109.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

Ord. No. 1129-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts with
LeadsOnline LLC for professional services necessary to provide access to
an on-line automated scrap materials
and used goods transaction information management system, including
on-going training and support services, for a period of one year, with a
one-year option to renew, exercisable
by the Director of Public Safety.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with LeadsOnline LLC for professional services
necessary to provide access to an online automated scrap materials and
used goods transaction information
management system, including ongoing training and support services
on the basis of its proposal dated May
1, 2014, in the total sum of $59,841.00,
for the Department of Public Safety,
for a period of one year, with a oneyear option to renew, exercisable by
the Director of Public Safety. The contract or contracts shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 025, Request No. RQS
6001, RL 2014-108.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

Ord. No. 1188-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to enter into
one or more contracts with Acme
Exterminating Company, Inc. for professional services necessary to conduct the Bed Bug Assistance program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Aging is authorized to enter into one
or more contracts with Acme Exterminating Company, Inc. for professional services necessary to conduct
the Bed Bug Assistance program on
the basis of its proposal dated August
19, 2014, in the total sum of $100,000,
for the Department of Aging. The contract or contracts shall be paid from
Fund No. 01-0201-6320, RQS 0201, RL
2014-111.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

Ord. No. 1189-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to maintain and

1547

29
repair heating, ventilation, and air
conditioning systems, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control for a term of two years, with
two one-year options to renew, the
first of which shall require additional
legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to make one or
more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period of
two years, with two one-year options
to renew, of the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
maintain and repair heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems, in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination
of the items as the Board of Control
determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the specified term may be
taken if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term. The
first of the one-year options to renew
shall not be exercised without additional legislative authority. If such
additional legislative authority is
granted and the first of the one-year
options to renew is exercised, then the
second of the one-year options to
renew shall be exercisable at the
option of the Director of Port Control,
without the necessity of obtaining
additional authority of this Council.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 3001, RL 2014-37)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Port Control may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

The City Record

30

October 22, 2014

Ord, No. 1199-14,
By Council Member Cimperman,
An ordinance establishing a new 6 foot mapped front setback on parcels located on the west side of West 18th Street
south of Lorain Avenue as shown on the attached map (Map Change No. 2501).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the mapped building front setback of parcels fronting on the west side of West 18th Street is changed
to 6 feet as shown on the attached map and further described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Lorain Avenue at its intersection with the northwesterly prolongation of the centerline
of West 18th Street;
Thence southeasterly and southerly along said centerline of West 18th Street to its intersection with the centerline of
Smith Court;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Smith Court to its intersection with a line drawn 6 feet westerly of and parallel to the easterly line of Sublot Number 26 in the Averell and Bradfords Grove Allotment shown on the recorded plat
in Volume 4, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northerly along said parallel line to its intersection with a line drawn 6 feet southwesterly of and parallel to
the northeasterly line of Sublot Number 15 in the aforementioned Averell and Bradfords Grove Allotment;
Thence northwesterly along said parallel line to its intersection with the centerline of Lorain Avenue;
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Lorain Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
centerline of West 18th Street and the principal place of beginning.
Section 2.That the change of zoning of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2502, and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective November 12, 2014.

1548

October 22, 2014

The City Record

31

Ord. No. 1200-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance establishing a new 6 foot mapped front setback on parcels located on the east side of West 19th Street
south of Lorain Avenue as shown on the attached map (Map Change No. 2501).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the mapped building front setback of parcels fronting on the east side of West 19th Street is changed
to 6 feet as shown on the attached map and further described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Lorain Avenue at its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the centerline of
West 19th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of West 19th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Smith Court;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Smith Court to its intersection with a line drawn 6 feet easterly of and parallel to the westerly line of Sublot Number 113 in the Bradford and Carter Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 29, Page 13 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northerly along said parallel line to its intersection with the centerline of Lorain Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Lorain Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the centerline of West 19th Street and the principal place of beginning.
Section 2. That the change of zoning of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2501, and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective November 12, 2014.

1549

The City Record

32
Ord. No. 1223-14.
By Council Members Cummins,
Cimperman, K. Johnson and Kelley
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 9 of Ordinance No. 623-14,
passed June 9, 2014, relating to the
public improvement of resurfacing
West 25th Street from I-71 to Detroit
Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

October 22, 2014

Section 1. That Section 9 of Ordinance No. 623-14, passed June 9, 2014,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 9. That the cost of the contracts and other expenditures authorized shall be paid from Fund No. 52
SF 001, 54 SF 001, 20 SF 563, from the
fund or funds which are credited any
funds received from the Ohio Department of Transportation from the LPA
Agreement, and from the fund or
funds to which are credited any gifts
or grants received from public or private entities for the purposes of this
ordinance, including cash contributions.

Section 2. That existing Section 9 of
Ordinance No. 623-14, passed June 9,
2014, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

Ord. No. 1224-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more standard and requirement contracts for the purchase, lease, or lease with option to purchase, of various on-road vehicles and off-road equipment, cabs, bodies, and accessories, equipment and other aftermarket items necessary to equip the vehicles authorized for their intended purposes,
including vehicle rehabilitation, training, and inspections, as needed, for the various divisions of City government, for
a period of one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to make one or more written standard purchase and
written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the period of one year, for the necessary items required for the purchase, lease, or lease with option to purchase, of various on-road vehicles and off-road equipment, cabs, bodies, and accessories, equipment and other aftermarket items
necessary to equip the vehicles authorized for their intended purposes, including labor and materials necessary
for vehicle rehabilitation, training, and inspections, as needed, in the estimated sum of $4,957,000, to be purchased
or procured by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the various divisions of City government, as described below:
2014 Enterprise Capital Vehicle Plan
Description of Equipment
Item
Number

Item Description

User

Quantity

Estimated
Cost

Extended
Est. Cost

$26,000
$30,000
$29,000
$34,000
$45,000
$55,000
$28,000
$28,000
$185,000
$60,000
$60,000
$200,000
$60,000
$16,500
$5,000
$25,000

$78,000
$210,000
$493,000
$238,000
$90,000
$55,000
$280,000
$56,000
$555,000
$300,000
$180,000
$400,000
$60,000
$16,500
$5,000
$175,000

Total

$3,191,500.00

$25,000
$295,000
$187,000
$262,500
$156,000
$19,000

$100,000
$885,000
$187,000
$262,500
$312,000
$19,000

Total

$1,765,500.00

Grand Total

$4,957,000.00

ENTERPRISE FUND
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16

17
18
19
20
21
22

Passenger Car-Mid-size
SUV-4X4
Pickup
Pickup-Heavy Duty (A)
Pickup-Heavy Duty (B)
Pickup-Heavy duty (C)
Cargo Van
Mini Van-Cargo
Cab Chassis w/Large USV
Cab Chassis w/Medium USV
Cab Chassis w/Medium Duty Dump
Cab Chassis w/Tandem Dump
Cab Chassis w/Aerial Bucket
Asphalt Roller
Equipment Trailer
Air Compressor

SUV-4X4
Cab Chassis w/ 60ft Aerial Bucket
Cab Chassis w/60ft Tree Service Bucket
Cab Chassis w/Digger Derrick
Cab Chassis w/47ft Aerial Bucket
Trailer Mounted Pump

Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water

CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP

3
7
17
7
2
1
10
2
3
5
3
2
1
1
1
7

4
3
1
1
2
1

Alternate bids for a period less than one year may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged against the proper appropriation accounts and
the Director of Finance shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of which purchases shall be

1550

October 22, 2014

The City Record

33

made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery order issued against the contract or contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 7015, RL 2014-42)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b) of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other governmental agencies. The Director of Public Works may sign all documents
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or more contracts with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

Ord. No. 1247-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into one or more concession
agreements for the operation of a
first-class food and beverage service
at the Cleveland City Hall Cafeteria,
for a period not to exceed two years,
with a one-year option to renew, exercisable by the Director of Public
Works.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Director of Public
Works is authorized to enter into one
or more concession agreements on the
basis of competitive proposals for the
operation of a first-class food and beverage service at the Cleveland City
Hall Cafeteria, for a period not to
exceed two years, with a one-year
option to renew exercisable by the
Director of Public Works. The selection of the concessionaire or concessionaires shall be made by the Board
of Control on the nomination of the
Director of Public Works. The concession fee to be paid to the City shall be
fixed by the Board of Control.

Section 2. That the Concession
Agreement shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

Ord. No. 1248-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into one or more concession
agreements for the operation of a
first-class food and beverage service
in connection with renting the Rotunda in City Hall and for marketing the
rental of the Rotunda for catered
events, for a period not to exceed two
years, with a one-year option to
renew, exercisable by the Director of
Public Works.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Director of Public
Works is authorized to enter into one
or more concession agreements on the
basis of competitive proposals for the
operation of first-class food and beverage service in connection with renting the Rotunda in City Hall under
Section 131.081 of the Codified Ordinances and for marketing the rental
of the Rotunda for catered events, for
a period not to exceed two years, with
a one-year option to renew exercisable by the Director of Public Works.
The selection of the concessionaire or
concessionaires shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Works. The
concession fee to be paid to the City
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
Section 2. That the Concession
Agreement shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

Ord. No. 1251-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Sections 35 and 41 of Ordinance No. 385-14, passed March 31, 2014, as
amended by Ordinance No. 739-14, passed July 16, 2014, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 35 of Ordinance No. 385-14, passed March 31, 2014, and Section 41 of Ordinance No. 38514, passed March 31, 2014, as amended by Ordinance No. 739-14, passed July 16, 2014, are amended to read as
follows:
Section 35. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.

Aging Services Administrator................................................
Air Pollution Control, Engineer IV ...................................
Airport Safety Shift Commander ..........................................
Assistant Administrator............................................................
Assistant Aging Services Administrator............................
Assistant Manager of Marketing..........................................
Assistant Security Manager ....................................................
Central Payroll Supervisor ......................................................
Chief Building Inspector..........................................................
Chief Electrical Inspector .......................................................
Chief Elevator Inspector..........................................................
Chief Heating Inspector...........................................................
Chief Rehabilitation Supervisor ............................................

1551

Minimum
$27,325.56
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00

Maximum
$90,312.42
65,041.78
73,916.85
58,564.01
64,132.74
58,564.01
60,614.58
58,564.01
70,053.60
70,053.60
70,053.60
70,053.60
73,916.85

The City Record

34
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.

Chore Services Coordinator .....................................................
Contract Supervisor - Division of Purchases and
Supplies .......................................................................................
Data Processing Supervisor ....................................................
Deputy Central Payroll Supervisor ......................................
Manager of Public Utilities - Building Maintenance....
Senior Systems Analyst ............................................................
Shift Supervisor Operations ....................................................
Superintendent of Distribution ..............................................
Superintendent of Purchase Power......................................
Supervising Tax Auditor .........................................................
Supervisor of Civil Service Records ....................................

October 22, 2014
20,800.00

53,570.40

20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
27,325.56
20,800.00
20,800.00

64,734.08
59,870.58
65,000.00
58,564.01
42,414.34
58,564.01
73,916.85
95,499.54
58,564.01
58,564.01

Section 41. That the appointing authority shall fix the salaries in the following classifications in accordance
with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.

Assistant Building Official ...................................................
City Comptroller ..........................................................................
City Treasurer..............................................................................
Chief Technology Officer.........................................................
Commissioner of Accounts ......................................................
Commissioner of Administrative Services Community Development......................................................
Commissioner of Air Quality .................................................
Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses....................
Commissioner of Burke Airport ............................................
Commissioner of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport .............................................................
Commissioner of Cleveland Public Power ........................
Commissioner of Code Enforcement....................................
Commissioner of Construction Permitting ........................
Commissioner of Emergency Medical Services ...............
Commissioner of Environment...............................................
Commissioner of Health ...........................................................
Commissioner of House of Corrections ..............................
Commissioner of Information Technology & Services .
Commissioner of Motor Vehicle Maintenance..................
Commissioner of Neighborhood Development ..................
Commissioner of Real Estate ................................................
Commissioner of Neighborhood Services ...........................
Commissioner of Park Maintenance and Properties.....
Commissioner of Parking Facilities....................................
Commissioner of Printing and Reproduction...................
Commissioner of Property Management ............................
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies .........................
Commissioner of Recreation ...................................................
Commissioner of Streets...........................................................
Commissioner of Traffic Engineering ................................
Commissioner of Utilities Fiscal Control ..........................
Commissioner of Waste Collection and Disposal...........
Commissioner of Water ............................................................
Commissioner of Water Pollution Control ........................
Deputy City Treasurer..............................................................
Deputy Director Department of Building and Housing
Director of Workforce Development ...................................
Public Safety Medical Director .............................................
Income Tax Administrator ......................................................
Manager of Administration – Public Works....................
Manager of Internal Audit .....................................................

Minimum
$42,758.15
42,758.15
42,758.15
80,000.00
40,314.82

Maximum
$142,024.13
142,024.13
131,098.50
206,040.00
136,049.25

40,314.82
42,758.15
40,314.82
40,314.92

136,049.25
142,024.13
125,582.86
125,582.86

42,758.15
45,201.46
42,758.15
42,758.15
42,758.15
42,758.15
45,021.46
40,314.82
52,734.82
40,314.82
40,314.82
40,314.82
42,758.15
42,758.15
40,314.82
40,314.82
45,201.46
42,758.15
42,758.15
40,314.82
42,758.15
40,314.82
40,314.82
45,201.46
40,314.82
26,273.96
36,590.39
70,000.00
80,000.00
42,758.15
40,314.82
40,314.82

152,120.83
177,386.65
142,024.13
142,024.13
142,024.13
142,024.13
150,984.16
125,456.57
150,984.16
136,049.25
125,582.86
125,582.86
131,098.50
152,120.83
136,049.25
136,049.25
150,984.16
131,098.50
152,120.83
136,049.25
131,098.50
125,582.86
136,049.25
212,221.20
136,049.25
88,406.29
142,024.13
169,776.96
250,000.00
142,024.13
125,582.86
125,582.86

Section 2. That existing Section 35 of Ordinance No. 385-14, passed March 31, 2014, and Section 41 of Ordinance
No. 385-14, passed March 31, 2014, as amended by Ordinance No. 739-14, passed July 16, 2014, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

Ord. No. 1252-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 608-14,
passed June 2, 2014, relating to an
agreement with the Cuyahoga County

Solid Waste District to accept funding in support of the Department of
Public
Safety’s
Environmental
Crimes Task Force.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for

1552

the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 608-14, passed June 2, 2014,
is amended to read as follows:

October 22, 2014
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
an agreement with the District to
accept funding in support of the
City’s Environmental Crimes Task
Force, in an amount not to exceed
$50,000 and any other funds that
become available during the agreement term, for the purposes including,
but not limited to the purchase of supplies,
equipment,
vehicles,
and
salaries, needed for environmental
crimes enforcement from May 1, 2014
through December 31, 2015, and those
funds are appropriated for this purpose.
Section 2. That existing Section 1 of
Ordinance No. 608-14, passed June 2,
2014, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

Ord. No. 1366-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to St.
Wendelin Parish to stretch a banner
on Columbus Avenue, adjacent to the
parish, for the period from October 15,
2014 to November 14, 2014, inclusive,
publicizing church events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding the
provision of Section 623.13 of the Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of the Department
of Capital Projects is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to
St. Wendelin Parish to stretch a banner on Columbus Avenue, adjacent to
the parish, for the period from October 15, 2014 to November 14, 2014,
inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Capital
Projects, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so as
not to interfere with any sign erected
and maintained under the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner of any pole from
which a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall
be printed or permitted on said banner and said banner shall be removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1367-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for The Cleveland Turkey
Trot, on November 27, 2014, sponsored
by Hermes Sports & Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
The Cleveland Turkey Trot, on
November 27, 2014, start: Lakeside &
East 6th; Lakeside west to West 3rd;
West 3rd north to Erieside; Erieside
east to East 9th; East 9th south to
Lakeside; Lakeside east to East 13th;
East 13th south to Hamilton; Hamilton east to East 38th; East 38th south
to St. Clair; St. Clair west to West 3rd;
West 3rd north to Lakeside; Lakeside
east to East 6th—FINISH; provided
that the applicant sponsor shall meet
all the requirements of Section 411.05
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed
as determined by the Chief of Police
and safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants in
the event. Said permit shall further
provide that the City of Cleveland
shall be fully indemnified from any
and all liability resulting from the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

Ord. No. 1368-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for The Pigskin Classic, on
November 29, 2014, sponsored by Hermes Sports & Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
The Pigskin Classic, on November 29,
2014, start: Old River Road at the
Odean; Old River west to Robert Lockwood Dr.; Robert Lockwood west to
Columbus; Columbus south to Carter
east to Scranton; Scranton south to
Train; turn around, Scranton north to
Carter; Carter west to Center; Center
west to Merwin; Merwin north
through city park to Old River Road—
FINISH LINE; provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary in

1553

35
order to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and all
liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

Ord. No. 1369-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for The Running the Bridge,
on October 19, 2014, sponsored by The
Harness Cycle Shop.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
The Running the Bridge, on October
19, 2014, start: Detroit & West 29th;
Detroit east to West 25th, West 25th
south to Lorain; Lorain east over
Lorain/Carnegie Bridge on Ontario;
Ontario north to Huron; Huron north
to Superior; Superior west across Veterans Memorial Bridge to Detroit;
Detroit west to West 29th—-FINISH
LINE; provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order to
protect the participants in the event.
Said permit shall further provide that
the City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability
resulting from the issuance of the
same, to the extent and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

Ord. No. 1370-14.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Professional
School of Cosmetology for the Cosmetology Training Program through the
use of Ward 7 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record

36
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement with the Professional
School of Cosmetology for the Cosmetology Training Program for the public purpose of providing education,
training and employment in the field
of cosmetology for Cleveland residents through the use of Ward 7 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $10,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

Ord. No. 1372-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
accept certain easement interests
from Alexander R. Frondorf and
Jason R. Bristol for a public sidewalk.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Director of Capital Projects is
authorized to accept certain easement
rights from Alexander R. Frondorf
and Jason R. Bristol, in and to the
premises hereinafter described for a
public sidewalk at 3300 Clinton
Avenue, at no cost to the City of Cleveland, and more fully described as follows:
Legal description of a portion of
3300 Clinton Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44113 for the use of a public sidewalk

Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Sublot No.
37 in the Taylor Farm Allotment of
part of the Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 49, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 2 of Maps,
Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Records,
and being further bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at a 5/8 inch iron pin at
the intersection of the Northerly
right-of-way line of Clinton Avenue,
66 feet wide, and the Westerly rightof-way of West 33rd Street, 16 feet
wide, also known as being the Southeasterly corner of land owned by
Jason R. Bristol & Alexander R. Frondorf, Permanent Parcel Numbers 00326-029 & 003-26-030;
Thence South 68°50'00" West along
said Northerly right-of-way line of
Clinton Avenue a distance of 22.5 feet
to a point and the Principle Place of
Beginning;
Thence continuing South 68°50'00"
West along Northerly right-of-way
line of Clinton Avenue a distance of
30.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 21°11'41" West a distance of 4.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 68°50'00" East a distance of 30.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 21°11'41" East a distance of 4.00 feet to the Principle
Place of Beginning and containing
120.39 square feet of land, as
described by Stephen Hovancsek &
Associates, Inc., in October, 2014
under the direction of Ryan A.
Snezek, Ohio Registered Surveyor No.
8495, State of Ohio, be the same more
or less but subject to all legal highways.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That the Director of the
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects is
authorized to execute all documents
on behalf of the City of Cleveland necessary to accept certain rights within
the premises.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 13, 2014.
Effective October 16, 2014.

October 22, 2014
COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, October 20, 2014
9:30 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee: Present: Cimperman, Chair;
Mitchell, Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell,
Authorized
Absence:
Cummins.
Cleveland, J. Johnson.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Keane, Mitchell,
Pruitt, Zone. Authorized Absence:
Conwell.
5:00 p.m.
Operations
Committee:
Pruitt,
Chair;
Keane,
Mitchell, Zone.

Present:
Kelley,

Tuesday, October 21, 2014
9:30 a.m.
Development, Planning & Sustainability (Zoning) Committee: Present:
Brancatelli, Chair; Cleveland, Vice
Chair; Cummins, Dow, Pruitt, Zone.
Authorized Absence: Cimperman.
Development, Planning & Sustainability Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair;
Cummins, Dow, Pruitt, Zone. Authorized Absence: Cimperman.
Wednesday, October 22, 2014
10:00 a.m.
Transportation
Committee:
Present: Keane, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair;
Conwell, J. Johnson, Reed, Sweeney.
Authorized Absence: K. Johnson.
Thursday, October 23, 2014
10:00 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee & Safety Committee: Present
in
H&HS:
Cimperman,
Chair;
Mitchell, Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, J. Johnson. Authorized Absence: Cummins. Present in
Safety: Zone, Chair; Conwell, Vice
Cimperman,
Dow,
Keane,
Chair;
Polensek. Authorized Absence: K.
Johnson.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Bed Bug Assistance Program — Acme Exterminating Company, Inc. — professional services —
contracts (O 1188-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1547
Western Reserve Area Agency on Aging Programs, 2015 — Western Reserve Area Agency
on Aging — Grants (O 1126-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1546

Agreements
Amend Ord. 608-14 — Accept Funding for Environmental Crimes Task Force — Combat Illegal
Dumping in the City — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District — Safety Department
(O 1252-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1552

1554

October 22, 2014

The City Record

37

Cosmetology Training Program — Professional School of Cosmetology — Community
Development Department (Ward 07 CRF) (O 1370-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1553

Appreciation
Gullian, Patricia (R 1409-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521

Banners
St. Wendelin Parish — Columbus Ave. — Oct. 15 to Nov. 14 — Church events — Capital Projects
Office (Ward 03) (O 1366-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1553

Board of Control — Capital Projects Office
Fleet Avenue Rehabilitation Project — approve subcontractors — Contract
PI2014*024 per C.O. Sec. 185.36 (BOC Res. 494-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1533

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Electrical engineering for Cleveland Public Power Expansion Program — per Contract
PS2014*119 to Middough Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 485-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531

Board of Control — Community Development Department
East 69th Street, 3413 (Ward 12) — PPN 125-31-067 — Virginia May Billings and Dale Russ
Billings (BOC Res. 491-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532
East 71st Street, 1097 (Ward 7) — PPN 105-28-007 — Judy Compton and Mary
Helbert (BOC Res. 492-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532
East 71st Street, 1256 (Ward 7) — PPN 105-23-058 — lease — Louis Anderson (BOC Res. 493-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1533

Board of Control — Emergency Medical Service Division
Record Management System technical support and maintenance — renew Contract #67608 with
New World Systems Corporation per C.O. Sec. 181.102(e) — Divisions of Police, Fire,
Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 490-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532

Board of Control — Fire Division
Record Management System technical support and maintenance — renew Contract #67608 with
New World Systems Corporation per C.O. Sec. 181.102(e) — Divisions of Police, EMS,
Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 490-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East 69th Street, 3413 (Ward 12) — PPN 125-31-067 — Virginia May Billings and Dale Russ
Billings (BOC Res. 491-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532
East 71st Street, 1097 (Ward 7) — PPN 105-28-007 — Judy Compton and Mary
Helbert (BOC Res. 492-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532
East 71st Street, 1256 (Ward 7) — PPN 105-23-058 — lease — Louis Anderson (BOC Res. 493-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1533

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Dump bodies, spreaders, and plow equipment parts and labor — per C.O. Sec. 131.64
to Concord Road Equipment Mfg., Inc. — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 488-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532

Board of Control — Police Division
Record Management System technical support and maintenance — renew Contract #67608 with
New World Systems Corporation per C.O. Sec. 181.102(e) — Divisions
of Fire, EMS, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 490-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Electrical engineering for Cleveland Public Power Expansion Program — per Contract
PS2014*119 to Middough Inc. — Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 485-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531
Information technology assessment and to prepare a five-year strategic plan for IT
systems — per Ord. 801-14 to DeltaWRX LLC — Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 484-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531
Record Management System technical support and maintenance — renew Contract #67608 with
New World Systems Corporation per C.O. Sec. 181.102(e) — Divisions of Police, Fire,
EMS, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 490-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532

1555

The City Record

38

October 22, 2014

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
1201 Lakeside Avenue Skylight Restoration and Partial Roof Replacement, all items — per
Ord. 262-12 to USA Roofing, Inc. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 487-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531
Demolishing existing and constructing new Incinerator Pump Station on West 3rd Street —
per Ord. 888-12 to Nerone & Sons, Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 486-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531
Fleet Avenue Rehabilitation Project — approve subcontractors — Contract
PI2014*024 per C.O. Sec. 185.36 — Office of Capitol Projects (BOC Res. 494-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1533

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Information technology assessment and to prepare a five-year strategic plan for IT
systems — per Ord. 801-14 to DeltaWRX LLC (BOC Res. 484-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531
Record Management System technical support and maintenance — renew Contract #67608 with
New World Systems Corporation per C.O. Sec. 181.102(e) — Divisions of Police, Fire,
EMS (BOC Res. 490-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
1201 Lakeside Avenue Skylight Restoration and Partial Roof Replacement, all items — per
Ord. 262-12 to USA Roofing, Inc. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 487-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531
Demolishing existing and constructing new Incinerator Pump Station on West 3rd Street —
per Ord. 888-12 to Nerone & Sons, Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control
(BOC Res. 486-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531
Electrical engineering for Cleveland Public Power Expansion Program — per Contract
PS2014*119 to Middough Inc. — Division of Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 485-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Dump bodies, spreaders, and plow equipment parts and labor — per C.O. Sec. 131.64
to Concord Road Equipment Mfg., Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(BOC Res. 488-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532
Transfer and disposal of tires, Bid 2, Item 1 — per Ord. 429-14 to Liberty Tire Services
of Ohio, LLC. — Division of Waste Collection (BOC Res. 489-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
1201 Lakeside Avenue Skylight Restoration and Partial Roof Replacement, all items — per
Ord. 262-12 to USA Roofing, Inc. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 487-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531
Dump bodies, spreaders, and plow equipment parts and labor — per C.O. Sec. 131.64
to Concord Road Equipment Mfg., Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept.
of Public Works (BOC Res. 488-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532
Transfer and disposal of tires, Bid 2, Item 1 — per Ord. 429-14 to Liberty Tire Services
of Ohio, LLC. — Division of Waste Collection, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 489-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532

Board of Control — Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Transfer and disposal of tires, Bid 2, Item 1 — per Ord. 429-14 to Liberty Tire Services
of Ohio, LLC. — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 489-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532

Board of Control — Water Division
1201 Lakeside Avenue Skylight Restoration and Partial Roof Replacement, all items — per
Ord. 262-12 to USA Roofing, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 487-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Demolishing existing and constructing new Incinerator Pump Station on West 3rd Street —
per Ord. 888-12 to Nerone & Sons, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 486-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Mobile Food Shop at Dock 32 — appeal dismissed on 10/20/14 (Cal. 14-179) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mobile Food Shop at Coast Guard Lots #9 & #10 — appeal dismissed on 10/20/14 (Cal. 14-180) .
Bridge Avenue, 4224 (Ward 3) – Phil Woodcock, owner — appeal heard on 10/20/14
(Cal. 14-181) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brookpark Road, 7250 (Ward 13) – Speedway LLC, owner — appeal heard on
10/20/14 (Cal. 14-183) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 11611 (Ward 9) – JJAM MGMT., owner, and E. 116th & Euclid LLC,
prospective purchaser — appeal withdrawn on 10/20/14 (Cal. 14-177) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kenilworth Avenue, 1202 (Ward 3) – Ukrainian Museum Archives, LLC, ownrer — appeal
heard on 10/20/14 (Cal. 14-189) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Murray Hill Road, 2081 (Ward 6) – Steve Bucchieri, owner — appeal heard on 10/20/14
(Cal. 14-178) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1556

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1535
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1535
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1534
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1534
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1534
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1534
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1534

October 22, 2014

The City Record

39

Robert Avenue, 4215 (Ward 14) – Iglesia Hispana Pentecostal, owner, and
Lincoln Preparatory School, tenant — appeal postponed to 11/17/14 on 10/20/14 (Cal. 14-191) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1534
Scranton Road, 3332 (Ward 14) – Sotre Properties, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
10/20/14 (Cal. 14-156) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1535
West 44th Street, 3478 (Ward 14) – Denise Moore-Toth, owner — appeal heard on 10/20/14
(Cal. 14-172) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1534

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Columbus Road, 1952 (Ward 3) – Robert Biggar, owner — appeal to be heard on
11/10/14 (Cal. 14-200) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 143rd Street, 3650 (Ward 2) – Shelda Brantley, owner — appeal to be heard on
11/10/14 (Cal. 14-193) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 147th Street, 3393 (Ward 1) – Shelda Brantley, owner — appeal to be heard on
11/10/14 (Cal. 14-194) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professor Street, 2450 (Ward 3) – Dan Larsen, owner — appeal to be heard on
11/10/14 (Cal. 14-199) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 11th Place, 2041 (Ward 3) – Robert Yarosh, owner — appeal to be heard on 11/10/14
(Cal. 14-197) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 11th Place, 2051 (Ward 3) – Robert Yarosh, owner — appeal to be heard on 11/10/14
(Cal. 14-198) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1534
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1533
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1533
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1534
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1534
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1534

Building and Housing Department
Hookah lounges and vapor lounges — amend Section 343.11 — enact Section 347.121 (O 1396-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1525
Moratorium on hookah lounge operations and vapor lounges in the City (O 1395-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1528

Capital Projects
Amend Ord. 623-14 — West 25th St., resurfacing (from 1-71 to Detroit Ave.) — public
improvement contracts — Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 14)
(O 1223-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. 834-14 — Crown Castle NG East Inc. — various locations — encroach into
right-of-way — 23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) and associated pole-mounted
cabinets, and duct banks — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 01, 02, 03, 04, 11
and 16) (O 1393-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clinton Ave., 3300 — Alexander R. Frondorf and Jason R. Bristol — easement — public
sidewalk (Ward 03) (O 1372-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Wendelin Parish — Columbus Ave. — Oct. 15 to Nov. 14 — Church events — banners
(Ward 03) (O 1366-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Cleveland Turkey Trot — permit — Nov. 27 — Hermes Sports & Events
(Ward 03) (O 1367-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Pigskin Classic — permit — Nov. 29 — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03) (O 1368-14) . . . .
The Running the Bridge — permit — Oct. 19 — The Harness Cycle Shop (Ward 03) (O 1369-14) .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1550

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1554
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1553
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1553
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1553
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1553

City of Cleveland Bids
Automotive and truck parts and service — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Water Pollution Control — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due October 31, 2014
(advertised 10/15/2014 and 10/22/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bunker Gear Suits, including, but not limited to, Proximity Pants, Proximity Coats,
Hoods, Helmets, Suspenders and Boots — Department of Port Control — per C.O. Sec.
181.101 — bid due November 21, 2014 (advertised 10/22/2014 and 10/29/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Labor and materials for maintenance, repair, enhance and/or replacement of heating,
ventilation and air conditioning systems, including rental for the various divisions
of The Department of Public Utilities (Re-bid) — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water — per Ord. 1340-13 — bid due September 14, 2014 (advertised
10/15/2014 and 10/22/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchase of labor and materials necessary to repair, replace or maintain various types
of valves, actuators, and appurtenances — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Water — per Ord. 850-14 — bid due September 7, 2014 (advertised 10/15/2014 and
10/22/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ridge Road Transfer Station Truck Scale Improvements Phase 2 — Department of
Public Works — Division of Architecture and Site Improvement — per C.O. Sec. 185.01 —
bid due November 6, 2014 (advertised 10/22/2014 and 10/29/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1535

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1535

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1535

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1535

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1535

City Planning Commission
Amend Ord. 834-14 — Crown Castle NG East Inc. — various locations — encroach into
right-of-way — 23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) and associated pole-mounted
cabinets, and duct banks — Capital Projects Office (Ward(s) 01, 02, 03, 04, 11 and
16) (O 1393-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dolloff Rd. and Ansen Ave. (Southwest Corner) — Change Use District (Ward 05) (O 1421-12) .
E. 49th St. (Between Jewett Ave. South to the Railroad) — Change Use and Area District
(Ward 05) (O 1426-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hamm Ave. (Intersection of E. 52nd St.) — Change Use and Area Districts (Ward 05) (O 1427-12)

1557

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1538
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1540
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1542

The City Record

40

October 22, 2014

North side of Marquardt Ave. (between West 7th St. and West 5th St.) — Establishing new
mapped setbacks on parcels (Ward 03) (O 994-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Track Rd. (Between Nursery St. and House Ave.) — Change Use District (Ward 05) (O 1422-12)
Track Rd. (West Of E. 55 St. to Sawtell Rd.) — Change Use District (Ward 05) (O 1469-12) . . . . .
West 135th St. and Lorain Ave. (northeast corner) — change Use, Area and Height Districts
(Ward 16) (O 858-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 18th St. (south of Lorain Ave.) — Establishing new mapped setback on parcels
(Ward 03) (O 1199-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 19th St. (south of Lorain Ave.) — Establishing new mapped setback on parcels
(Ward 03) (O 1200-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1545
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1539
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1543
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1544
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1548
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1549

Cleveland Municipal Court
Oplate Outpatient Treatment Project — Substance Abuse and Mental Health
Services Administration (SAMHSA) — Finance Department — Grant (O 1382-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1522

Codified Ordinances
Decorative Street Painting Permits — enact Section 131.10 — Works Department (O 1397-14) . . .
Hookah lounges and vapor lounges — amend Section 343.11 — enact Section 347.121 — Building
and Housing Department (O 1396-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Moratorium on hookah lounge operations and vapor lounges in the City — Building and
Housing Department (O 1395-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parking fees and parking regulations in parking meter zones — amend Sections 131.78 and
453.01 — Works Department (O 1394-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1526
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1525
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1528
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524

Collective Bargaining Agreements
Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association — Chief Dispatchers — approve collective bargaining
agreement — amend Section 15 of Ord. 385-14 — Finance Department — Human Resources
Department (O 1328-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531

Communications
Resident Utilization Report — September 2014 Bi-Monthly Report — Equal Opportunity Office
(F 1390-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521

Community Development
Cosmetology Training Program — Professional School of Cosmetology — agreement
(Ward 07 CRF) (O 1370-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1553

Concession Agreements
Food and beverage service in City Hall Rotunda — Works Department (O 1248-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1551
Food and beverage service in Cleveland City Hall Cafeteria — Works Department (O 1247-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1551

Condolences
Chambliss, Alforniece (R 1402-14) .
Croom, Annie Lee (R 1401-14) . . . . .
Kinney, Lamont (R 1400-14) . . . . . .
Neal, Jr., Willie David (R 1404-14) .
Scott, James E. (R 1403-14) . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1521
1521
1521
1521
1521

Congratulations
Bibb, Leon (R 1406-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521
Boyland, John — 100th Birthday (R 1405-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521

Contracts
Amend Ord. 608-14 — Accept Funding for Environmental Crimes Task Force — Combat Illegal
Dumping in the City — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District — agreement — Safety
Department (O 1252-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. 623-14 — West 25th St., resurfacing (from 1-71 to Detroit Ave.) — public
improvement — Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 14) (O 1223-14) . . . . . . .
Bed Bug Assistance Program — Acme Exterminating Company, Inc. — professional services —
Aging Department (O 1188-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Body-worn camera system — Police Division — Safety Department (O 1128-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cosmetology Training Program — Professional School of Cosmetology — agreement —
Community Development Department (Ward 07 CRF) (O 1370-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fire aerial apparatus — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division — Works Department (O 1386-14) .
Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems maintenance and repair (O 1189-14) . . . . . . . .

1558

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1552
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1550
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1547
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1546
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1553
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1523
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1547

October 22, 2014

The City Record

LeadsOnline LLC — professional services — on-line automated scrap materials and used goods
transaction information management system (O 1129-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehab. of BKL Terminal Enhancement Program — public improvement — professional
services (O 848-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salt, rock — Streets Division — Works Department (O 1385-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Homeland Security Program, 2013 (GAP) — Cuyahoga County — Grants — Safety
Department (O 1127-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Title X Program — Ohio Department of Health — Medicaid program payments —
Grants (O 1384-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicles equipment and accessories — Works Department (O 1224-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

41
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1547
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1530
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1523
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1546
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1522
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1550

Cuyahoga County
Amend Ord. 608-14 — Accept Funding for Environmental Crimes Task Force — Combat Illegal
Dumping in the City — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District — agreement — Safety
Department (O 1252-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1552
Mental Health and Substance Abuse Prevention Program, 2015 — Cuyahoga County Alcohol
Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board — Grants — Health Department
(O 1383-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1522
State Homeland Security Program, 2013 (GAP) — Grants — Safety Department (O 1127-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1546

Easements
Clinton Ave., 3300 — Alexander R. Frondorf and Jason R. Bristol — public sidewalk — Capital
Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1372-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1554

Encroachments
Amend Ord. 834-14 — Crown Castle NG East Inc. — various locations — right-of-way — 23 nodes
(distributed antenna systems) and associated pole-mounted cabinets, and duct banks —
Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 01, 02, 03, 04, 11 and
16) (O 1393-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527

Fees
Parking fees and parking regulations in parking meter zones — amend Sections 131.78 and
453.01 — Works Department (O 1394-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524

Finance Department
Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association — Chief Dispatchers — approve collective
bargaining agreement — amend Section 15 of Ord. 385-14 — Human Resources
Department (O 1328-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oplate Outpatient Treatment Project — Substance Abuse and Mental Health
Services Administration (SAMHSA) — Cleveland Municipal Court — Grant (O 1382-14) . . .
Salary and wage schedules — Sections 30, 34, 36, 37, 39 and 40 — amend Ord. 385-14 — Human
Resources Department (O 1326-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salary and wage schedules — Sections 35 and 41 — amend Ord. 385-14 and Ord. 739-14 — Human
Resources Department (O 1251-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1522
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1551

Gifts
Dwayne Browder football field — cash donation — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. —
Works Department (O 1381-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521

Grants
Mental Health and Substance Abuse Prevention Program, 2015 — Cuyahoga County Alcohol Drug
Addiction and Mental Health Services Board — Health Department (O 1383-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oplate Outpatient Treatment Project — Substance Abuse and Mental Health
Services Administration (SAMHSA) — Cleveland Municipal Court — Finance Department
(O 1382-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Homeland Security Program, 2013 (GAP) — Cuyahoga County — Safety
Department (O 1127-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Title X Program — Ohio Department of Health — Medicaid program payments (O 1384-14) . . . . . . .
Western Reserve Area Agency on Aging Programs, 2015 — Western Reserve Area Agency
on Aging (O 1126-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 1522

. . . . . . . . . . . 1522
. . . . . . . . . . . 1546
. . . . . . . . . . . 1522
. . . . . . . . . . . 1546

Health Department
Mental Health and Substance Abuse Prevention Program, 2015 — Cuyahoga County
Alcohol Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board — Grants (O 1383-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1522
Title X Program — Ohio Department of Health — Medicaid program payments —
Grants (O 1384-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1522

1559

The City Record

42

October 22, 2014

Human Resources Department
Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association — Chief Dispatchers — approve collective bargaining
agreement — amend Section 15 of Ord. 385-14 — Finance Department (O 1328-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531
Salary and wage schedules — Sections 30, 34, 36, 37, 39 and 40 — amend Ord. 385-14 —
Finance Department (O 1326-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531
Salary and wage schedules — Sections 35 and 41 — amend Ord. 385-14 and Ord. 739-14 —
Finance Department (O 1251-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1551

Illegal Dumping
Amend Ord. 608-14 — Accept Funding for Environmental Crimes Task Force — Combat Illegal
Dumping in the City — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District — agreement — Safety
Department (O 1252-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1552

Leases
Vehicles equipment and accessories — Works Department (O 1224-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1550

Licenses
Moratorium on hookah lounge operations and vapor lounges in the City — Building and Housing
Department (O 1395-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1528

Liquor Permits
Broadway Ave., 6206 (N/end) — objection to transfer of stock (Ward 12) (R 1379-14). . . . . . . . . .
East 200th St., 756 — objection to issuance (Ward 08) (R 1371-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 16417-19 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 10) (F 1392-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Ave., 5106 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 15) (R 1363-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 4506 (1st fl.) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res.
1015-14 (Ward 03) (R 1365-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 5379 — objection to transfer of liquor license (Ward 10) (R 1380-14) . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 6201 (1st fl.) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 10) (R 1387-14). . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 6201 (1st fl.) — objection to issuance (Ward 10) (R 1388-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 140th St., 4051 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 16) (F 1391-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 9th St., 1293 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 921-13 (Ward 03) (R 1364-14)

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1537
1536
1521
1536

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1536
1537
1529
1529
1521
1536

Mayor’s Office
Cleveland Down Syndrome Day, October 20, 2014 (R 1389-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1529

Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division (MVM)
Fire aerial apparatus — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division — contracts — Works
Department (O 1386-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1523

Office Of Equal Opportunity
Resident Utilization Report — September 2014 Bi-Monthly Report (F 1390-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521

Ohio Department of Health
Title X Program — Medicaid program payments — Grants (O 1384-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1522

Ohio Department Of Transportation (ODOT)
Amend Ord. 623-14 — West 25th St., resurfacing (from 1-71 to Detroit Ave.) — public
improvement contracts (Ward 14) (O 1223-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1550

Permits
Amend Ord. 834-14 — Crown Castle NG East Inc. — various locations — encroach into
right-of-way — 23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) and associated pole-mounted
cabinets, and duct banks — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(Ward(s) 01, 02, 03, 04, 11 and 16) (O 1393-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Decorative Street Painting Permits — enact Section 131.10 — Works Department (O 1397-14)
Moratorium on hookah lounge operations and vapor lounges in the City — Building and
Housing Department (O 1395-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Wendelin Parish — Columbus Ave. — Oct. 15 to Nov. 14 — Church events — banners —
Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1366-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Cleveland Turkey Trot — Nov. 27 — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03) (O 1367-14) . . . .
The Pigskin Classic — Nov. 29 — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03) (O 1368-14) . . . . . . . . . . .
The Running the Bridge — Oct. 19 — The Harness Cycle Shop (Ward 03) (O 1369-14) . . . . . . . .

1560

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1526
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1528
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1553
1553
1553
1553

October 22, 2014

The City Record

43

Police Division
Body-worn camera system — contracts — Safety Department (O 1128-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1546

Port Control Department
Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems maintenance and repair —
contracts (O 1189-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1547
Rehab. of BKL Terminal Enhancement Program — public improvement contracts —
professional services (O 848-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1530

Professional Services
Bed Bug Assistance Program — Acme Exterminating Company, Inc. — contracts — Aging
Department (O 1188-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Body-worn camera system — Police Division — contracts — Safety Department (O 1128-14). . . . .
LeadsOnline LLC — contracts — on-line automated scrap materials and used goods transaction
information management system (O 1129-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehab. of BKL Terminal Enhancement Program — public improvement contracts (O 848-14) . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1547
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1546
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1547
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1530

Public Improvements
Amend Ord. 623-14 — West 25th St., resurfacing (from 1-71 to Detroit Ave.) — contracts —
Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 14) (O 1223-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1550
Rehab. of BKL Terminal Enhancement Program — contracts — professional services (O 848-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1530

Public Works
Decorative Street Painting Permits — enact Section 131.10 (O 1397-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dwayne Browder football field — cash donation — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
(O 1381-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fire aerial apparatus — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division — contracts (O 1386-14) . . . . . .
Food and beverage service in City Hall Rotunda — concession agreements (O 1248-14) . . . . .
Food and beverage service in Cleveland City Hall Cafeteria — concession agreements
(O 1247-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parking fees and parking regulations in parking meter zones — amend Sections 131.78 and
453.01 (O 1394-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salt, rock — Streets Division (O 1385-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicles equipment and accessories (O 1224-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1526
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1523
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1551
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1551
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1523
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1550

Races
The Cleveland Turkey Trot — permit — Nov. 27 — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03) (O 1367-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1553
The Pigskin Classic — permit — Nov. 29 — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03) (O 1368-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1553
The Running the Bridge — permit — Oct. 19 — The Harness Cycle Shop (Ward 03) (O 1369-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1553

Recognition
Famicos Foundation (R 1408-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521
Range. Curly (R 1407-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521

Regional Transit Authority (RTA)
Importance of public transportation to the future of our city (R 1399-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1530

Reports
Resident Utilization Report — September 2014 Bi-Monthly Report — Equal Opportunity Office
(F 1390-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521

Resolution of Support
Cleveland Down Syndrome Day, October 20, 2014 (R 1389-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Importance of public transportation to the future of our city (R 1399-14) . . . .
Ohio Development Services Agency — policy revisions — Ohio Preservation
smaller-scale projects (R 1398-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1529
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1530
Tax Credit —
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1530

Safety Department
Amend Ord. 608-14 — Accept Funding for Environmental Crimes Task Force — Combat Illegal
Dumping in the City — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District — agreement (O 1252-14) . .
Body-worn camera system — Police Division — contracts (O 1128-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
LeadsOnline LLC — professional services — contracts — on-line automated scrap materials
and used goods transaction information management system (O 1129-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Homeland Security Program, 2013 (GAP) — Cuyahoga County — Grants (O 1127-14) . . . . .

1561

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1552
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1546
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1547
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1546

The City Record

44

October 22, 2014

Salaries
Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association — Chief Dispatchers — approve collective bargaining
agreement — amend Section 15 of Ord. 385-14 — Finance Department — Human Resources
Department (O 1328-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531
Salary and wage schedules — Sections 30, 34, 36, 37, 39 and 40 — amend Ord. 385-14 —
Finance Department — Human Resources Department (O 1326-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531
Salary and wage schedules — Sections 35 and 41 — amend Ord. 385-14 and Ord. 739-14 —
Finance Department — Human Resources Department (O 1251-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1551

Streets Division
Salt, rock — Works Department (O 1385-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1523

Tax Credits
Ohio Development Services Agency — policy revisions — Ohio Preservation Tax Credit —
smaller-scale projects (R 1398-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1530

Vehicles
Vehicles equipment and accessories — Works Department (O 1224-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1550

Ward 01
Amend Ord. 834-14 — Crown Castle NG East Inc. — various locations — encroach into
right-of-way — 23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) and associated pole-mounted
cabinets, and duct banks — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(Ward(s) 01, 02, 03, 04, 11 and 16) (O 1393-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
Croom, Annie Lee — Condolence (R 1401-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521
Kinney, Lamont — Condolence (R 1400-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521

Ward 02
Amend Ord. 834-14 — Crown Castle NG East Inc. — various locations — encroach into
right-of-way — 23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) and associated pole-mounted
cabinets, and duct banks — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(Ward(s) 01, 02, 03, 04, 11 and 16) (O 1393-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
Chambliss, Alforniece — Condolence (R 1402-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521
Gullian, Patricia — Appreciation (R 1409-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521

Ward 03
Amend Ord. 834-14 — Crown Castle NG East Inc. — various locations — encroach into
right-of-way — 23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) and associated pole-mounted
cabinets, and duct banks — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(Ward(s) 01, 02, 03, 04, 11 and 16) (O 1393-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Down Syndrome Day, October 20, 2014 (R 1389-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clinton Ave., 3300 — Alexander R. Frondorf and Jason R. Bristol — easement — public
sidewalk — Capital Projects Office (O 1372-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Decorative Street Painting Permits — enact Section 131.10 — Works Department (O 1397-14)
Lorain Ave., 4506 (1st fl.) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res.
1015-14 — liquor permit (R 1365-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North side of Marquardt Ave. (between West 7th St. and West 5th St.) — Establishing new
mapped setbacks on parcels — City Planning Commission (O 994-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Wendelin Parish — Columbus Ave. — Oct. 15 to Nov. 14 — Church events — banners —
Capital Projects Office (O 1366-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Cleveland Turkey Trot — permit — Nov. 27 — Hermes Sports & Events (O 1367-14) . . . . .
The Pigskin Classic — permit — Nov. 29 — Hermes Sports & Events (O 1368-14) . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Running the Bridge — permit — Oct. 19 — The Harness Cycle Shop (O 1369-14) . . . . . . . . .
West 18th St. (south of Lorain Ave.) — Establishing new mapped setback on parcels — City
Planning Commission (O 1199-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 19th St. (south of Lorain Ave.) — Establishing new mapped setback on parcels — City
Planning Commission (O 1200-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 9th St., 1293 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 921-13 — liquor permit
(R 1364-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1529
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1554
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1526
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1536
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1545
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1553
1553
1553
1553

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1548
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1549
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1536

Ward 04
Amend Ord. 834-14 — Crown Castle NG East Inc. — various locations — encroach into
right-of-way — 23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) and associated pole-mounted
cabinets, and duct banks — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(Ward(s) 01, 02, 03, 04, 11 and 16) (O 1393-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527

1562

October 22, 2014

The City Record

45

Ward 05
Boyland, John — 100th Birthday — Congratulations (R 1405-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dolloff Rd. and Ansen Ave. (Southwest Corner) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (O 1421-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 49th St. (Between Jewett Ave. South To The Railroad) — Change Use and Area District —
City Planning Commission (O 1426-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gullian, Patricia — Appreciation (R 1409-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hamm Ave. (Intersection Of E. 52nd St.) — Change Use and Area Districts — City Planning
Commission (O 1427-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Track Rd. (Between Nursery St. And House Ave.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (O 1422-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Track Rd. (West Of E. 55 St. To Sawtell Rd.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (O 1469-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1538
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1540
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1542
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1539
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1543

Ward 06
Gullian, Patricia — Appreciation (R 1409-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521
Neal, Jr., Willie David — Condolence (R 1404-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521

Ward 07
Cosmetology Training Program — Professional School of Cosmetology — agreement —
Community Development Department (Ward 07 CRF) (O 1370-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1553
Scott, James E. — Condolence (R 1403-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521

Ward 08
East 200th St., 756 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 1371-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1536
Range. Curly — Recognition (R 1407-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521

Ward 09
Famicos Foundation — Recognition (R 1408-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521
Importance of public transportation to the future of our city (R 1399-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1530

Ward 10
Euclid Ave., 16417-19 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1392-14) .
Range. Curly — Recognition (R 1407-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 5379 — objection to transfer of liquor license — liquor permit (R 1380-14)
St. Clair Ave., 6201 (1st fl.) — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit
(R 1387-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 6201 (1st fl.) — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 1388-14) . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1537
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1529
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1529

Ward 11
Amend Ord. 834-14 — Crown Castle NG East Inc. — various locations — encroach into
right-of-way — 23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) and associated pole-mounted
cabinets, and duct banks — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(Ward(s) 01, 02, 03, 04, 11 and 16) (O 1393-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
Hookah lounges and vapor lounges — amend Section 343.11- enact Section 347.121 — Building
and Housing Department (O 1396-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1525
Ohio Development Services Agency — policy revisions — Ohio Preservation Tax Credit —
smaller-scale projects (R 1398-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1530

Ward 12
Broadway Ave., 6206 (N/end) — objection to transfer of stock — liquor permit (R 1379-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1537
Gullian, Patricia — Appreciation (R 1409-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521

Ward 13
Bibb, Leon — Congratulations (R 1406-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521

Ward 14
Amend Ord. 623-14 — West 25th St., resurfacing (from 1-71 to Detroit Ave.) — public
improvement contracts — Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) (O 1223-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1550
Decorative Street Painting Permits — enact Section 131.10 — Works Department (O 1397-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1526

Ward 15
Decorative Street Painting Permits — enact Section 131.10 — Works Department (O 1397-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1526
Franklin Ave., 5106 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1363-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1536

1563

The City Record

46

October 22, 2014

Ward 16
Amend Ord. 834-14 — Crown Castle NG East Inc. — various locations — encroach into
right-of-way — 23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) and associated pole-mounted
cabinets, and duct banks — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(Ward(s) 01, 02, 03, 04, 11 and 16) (O 1393-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
West 135th St. and Lorain Ave. (northeast corner) — change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (O 858-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1544
West 140th St., 4051 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1391-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1521

Zoning
Dolloff Rd. and Ansen Ave. (Southwest Corner) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 05) (O 1421-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 49th St. (Between Jewett Ave. South To The Railroad) — Change Use and Area District —
City Planning Commission (Ward 05) (O 1426-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hamm Ave. (Intersection of E. 52nd St.) — Change Use and Area Districts — City Planning
Commission (Ward 05) (O 1427-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North side of Marquardt Ave. (between West 7th St. and West 5th St.) — Establishing new
mapped setbacks on parcels — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 994-14). . . . . . . . . .
Track Rd. (Between Nursery St. and House Ave.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 05) (O 1422-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Track Rd. (West of E. 55 St. to Sawtell Rd.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 05) (O 1469-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 135th St. and Lorain Ave. (northeast corner) — change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (Ward 16) (O 858-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 18th St. (south of Lorain Ave.) — Establishing new mapped setback on parcels — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1199-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 19th St. (south of Lorain Ave.) — Establishing new mapped setback on parcels — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1200-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1538
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1540
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1542
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1545
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1539
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1543
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1544
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1548
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1549

Zoning Code
Hookah lounges and vapor lounges — amend Section 343.11 — enact Section 347.121 — Building
and Housing Department (O 1396-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1525

1564

