The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

March the Fifth, Two Thousand and Fourteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

20

Board of Control

20

Civil Service

23

1 Terrell H. Pruitt

Board of Zoning Appeals

23

2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
23

4 Kenneth L. Johnson

Public Notice

26

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

26

6 Mamie J. Mitchell

City of Cleveland Bids

26

7 TJ Dow

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

27

Committee Meetings

31

Index

31

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Jeffrey D. Johnson
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Martin J. Sweeney
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zack Reed ..........................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Martin J. Flask, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Special Projects
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Paul Bender, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview
Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Eugene R. Miller, (Board Lawyer), Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice
Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary
Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa
Ryan, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Jomarie Wasik, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member _____________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Giancarlo Calicchia, John Torres, Robert Vilkas, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Ed Wade – Courtroom 12A
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Chief Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 5, 2014

Vol. 101

No. 5230

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MARCH 3, 2014
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2014-2017
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman
(CHAIR), Mitchell (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Property Committee: K. Johnson
(CHAIR), Sweeney (VICE-CHAIR),
Brancatelli, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, Reed.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley (CHAIR), Cleveland (VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY.
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Cimperman, Cummins, Dow, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR),
Brady
(VICEBrancatelli,
Cummins,
CHAIR),
Keane, Mitchell, Polensek.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Zone (VICE-CHAIR),
J.Johnson, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Sweeney.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone
(CHAIR),
Conwell
(VICECHAIR), Cimperman, Dow, K.Johnson, Keane, Polensek.

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:
Mayor's Appointments Committee:
Sweeney (CHAIR), Brady, Cleveland, Dow, Kelley.
Operations
Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR), Kelley, Keane, Mitchell,
Zone.
Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Keane, Pruitt.

Kelley
Cummins,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL

STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTANCE
File No. 317-14.
From Department of Public Utilities, City of Cleveland, for Crown
Filter Rehabilitation Project #601.
Contractor: Shook, Inc. Contract:
#PI2010*054. Date of Acceptance:
February 23, 2012. Received.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL

______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, March 3, 2014
The meeting of the Council was
called to order with the President of
Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the
Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Brian J. Cummins,
TJ Dow, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Kenneth L. Johnson, Martin J. Keane,
Kevin J. Kelley, Mamie J. Mitchell,
Michael D. Polensek, Terrell H.
Pruitt,
Zack
Reed,
Martin
J.
Sweeney and Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Chief of Staff
Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Education Monyka S. Price, Chief of Communications Maureen Harper, Chief
of Sustainability Jenita McGowan,
and Directors Langhenry, Dumas,
Bender,
Smith,
Spronz,
Butler,
McGrath,
Cox,
Rush,
Rybka,
Nichols,
Griffin,
Southerington,
Fumich, and Ambroz.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
Associate
Pastor
John
Coaxum,
Glenville Seventh Day Adventist
Church, Cleveland, Ohio (Ward 9).
Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Reed, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Cimperman.
COMMUNICATIONS

10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Dow
(VICE-CHAIR), Conwell, J. Johnson,
K.Johnson, Reed, Sweeney.

Cleveland. Notice of acceptance of a
gift from David A. Russo of two
weight lifting benches in the value
of $500 for the First District Police
Fitness Room. Received.

File No. 318-14.
From Michael McGrath, Director,
Department of Public Safety, City of

247

File No. 315-14.
RE: #80036070155. Stock Application, C1 C2. 7 Eleven, Inc., 1035 East
85th Street. (Ward 8). Received.
File No. 316-14.
RE: #5432735. Economic Development
Transfer
Application,
D5.
Michelle Mahone, 14804 St. Clair
Avenue. (Ward 10). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 319-14—Thomas Jason
Watkins.
Res. No. 320-14—Roland L. Osborn,
Jr.
Res. No. 331-14—Steven Knaus.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 321-14—Thomas M. Lynch
— 2014 “Hibernian of the Year”.
Res. No. 322-14—Margie Bradley.
Res. No. 323-14—Raymond J. Marvar.
Res. No. 324-14—Anthony W. Hiti.
Res. No. 325-14—Rose Marie Jisa.
Res. No. 326-14—Martha Gabrosek.
Res. No. 327-14—Ann Dagg.
Res. No. 328-14—East 80th Slovenian National Home.
Res. No. 329-14—Calvin Williams,
Chief of Cleveland Police.
COMMEMORATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 330-14—John Turk.

The City Record

4
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 298-14.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into an agreement with Cuyahoga County to transfer the responsibility of answering cellular 9-1-1 calls
made within the City of Cleveland
from the County to the City for a period of five years, with one five-year
option to renew exercisable by the
Director of Public Safety; authorizing
the City to accept funds from the
County to support the City’s increased
responsibility; and authorizing other
agreements with various wireless
providers.
Whereas,
currently
Cuyahoga
County through the Cuyahoga Emergency
Communications
System
(“CECOMS”) answers all cellular 91-1 calls made in Cuyahoga County,
including those calls made within
the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, currently CECOMS then
transfers these calls to the appropriate
Public
Safety
Answering
Point (“PSAP”) based upon caller
location; and
Whereas, the City’s Department of
Public Safety, Division of Police,
operates a PSAP in Cleveland; and
Whereas, the County and the City
desire to have CECOMS no longer
answer cellular 9-1-1 calls originating in Cleveland but rather for the
City’s PSAP to directly answer and
handle these calls; and
Whereas, the County desires to
assist the City in taking over
CECOM’s responsibilities for these
calls by providing certain funding;
and
Whereas, the Cuyahoga County 91-1 Board has approved the transfer
of this responsibility from CECOMS
to the City’s PSAP; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
an agreement with Cuyahoga County
to transfer the responsibility of
directly answering 9-1-1 cellular calls
made within the City of Cleveland
from the County’s CECOMS to the City
of Cleveland Department of Public
Safety’s PSAP for a period of five
years, with one five-year option to
renew, exercisable by the Director of
Public Safety (the “Transfer Agreement”).
Section 2. That the Transfer Agreement shall provide that the City
receive up to $600,000 annually from
the County to support the City’s
increased responsibilities following
the transfer, and shall not exceed
$3,000,000 over the five-year initial
term. That under the Transfer Agreement, the parties agree that the
amount of the County’s payments to
the City under the Transfer Agreement is contingent upon the amount
of funding the County receives from
the State of Ohio Wireless Government Assistance Fund.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with various
cellular providers to implement this

ordinance (the “Provider Agreements”). The Provider Agreements
shall run independently of the Transfer Agreement and may, as determined appropriate by the Director of
Public Safety, exceed the term of the
Transfer Agreement and continue
even if the Transfer Agreement is terminated early under the terms of the
Transfer Agreement.
Section 4. That Transfer Agreement
and Provider Agreements shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 299-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into an agreement with Cuyahoga County to permit the County’s
Sheriff’s Department to provide the
City with all booking, housing, and
other related services for City Prisoners for a per diem rate per prisoner.
Whereas, the City desires to cease
operations at its Jails and Cleveland
House of Correction, both currently
operated by the Division of Correction in the Department of Public
Safety; and
Whereas, the Cuyahoga County,
through its Sheriff’s Department,
operates County jail and correctional facilities and contracts with various political subdivisions to provide
jail housing and related services for
their prisoners; and
Whereas, the City desires to have
the County’s Sheriff Department
take over booking, housing and
other related services for individuals designated “City Prisoners” for a
per diem rate per City Prisoner, and
the County is agreeable to this; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
an agreement with Cuyahoga County
to have the County’s Sheriff Department provide all booking, housing
and other related services for “City
Prisoners” for a fee calculated at a
per diem rate per City Prisoner established by the Board of Control. The
agreement shall provide for a transition period for the orderly transfer of
operations and upon completion of the
transition period, the total per diem
per City Prisoner payable to the County shall not fall below the annual
amount of $2,365,658.95. The Agreement shall have no termination date
but either party may terminate the
Agreement without cause with twenty four (24) months prior written
notice. The per diem rate may be
increased upon written agreement of
the parties with Board of Control
approval up to, but not to exceed, 2%
after completion of the transition

248

March 5, 2014
period and no more than once every
twelve month period, but only upon
substantiation by County of increased
County costs directly attributable to
City Prisoners.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to permit the
County to use the City-allocated space
on the 3rd floor of the County’s Detention Center known as the “120 Space”
for temporary prisoner housing during the term of the Agreement. City
shall no longer be charged by County
for any expenses related to the 120
Space, including, but not limited to,
remodeling, updates, maintenance,
utilities, and other expenses that currently are charged to the City for use
of the 120 Space.
Section 3. That the cost of the agreement, including the transitional period, shall be paid from the fund or
funds approved by the Director of
Finance and are appropriated for this
purpose.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 300-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Chief of Police, with concurrence of the Director of Public Safety,
to enter into an agreement with University Hospitals Health System to
exercise the authority permitted
under division (D) of Section 4973.17
of the Revised Code; to set forth standards and criteria governing interaction and cooperation between police
officers for the hospital and officers
in the Cleveland Division of Police;
and, to permit certain UHHS Police
services within such areas of the City
as may be authorized by the City’s
Chief of Police.
Whereas, division (D) of Section
4973.17 of the Revised Code authorizes the Secretary of State, upon
application of a hospital that is
operated by a public or nonprofit
hospital agency that employs and
maintains its own proprietary police
department or security department,
to appoint and commission persons
designated by the hospital to act as
police officers for the hospital; and
Whereas, the persons appointed as
police officers for a hospital shall
not engage in any duties or activities as police officers for the hospital unless requirements set forth in
division (D) of Section 4973.17 of the
Revised Code are met; and
Whereas, the statute requires that
the chief of police of the municipal
corporation the hospital is located in
grant approval to the hospital to
permit the appointed officers to
engage in police duties and activities; and requires that the hospital
enter into a written agreement with
the chief of police of the municipal
corporation to set forth certain standards and criteria governing interaction and cooperation between the
hospital
and
municipal
police
departments; and

March 5, 2014
Whereas, under division (D) of
Section 4973.17 of the Revised Code
the chief of police may grant
approval for the hospital’s police to
act as a police officers outside hospital property in the municipal corporation when engaging directly in
the discharge of the person’s duties
as police officers for the hospital.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Chief of Police,
with concurrence of the Director of
Public Safety, is authorized to enter
into an agreement with University
Hospitals Health System (“UHHS”)
pursuant to Division (D) of 4973.17 of
the Ohio Revised Code to permit
UHHS police officers meeting the criteria under Division (D) to exercise
the authority permitted under that
Section; to set forth the standards and
criteria to govern the interaction and
cooperation between police officers
for UHHS and officers in the Cleveland Division of Police; and, within
the limits set by the City’s Chief of
Police, to permit UHHS police officers
to act as police officers outside UHHS
property within the municipal corporation when engaging directly in the
discharge of their duties as police
officers for UHHS.
Section 2. That the agreement may
contain a provision that it may be
amended from time to time as the
Chief of Police with concurrence of
the Director of Public Safety, and
UHHS deem necessary.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 301-14.
By Council Members Zone, K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to Near West Theater,
Inc. to encroach into the public rightof-way below and at grade of West
67th Street by installing, using, and
maintaining a frost slab, pier shoring,
and an entrance doorway.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit, revocable at the will of Council, to Near West Theater, Inc., 6702
Detroit Avenue N.W. Cleveland, Ohio
44102 (“Permittee”), to encroach into
the public right-of-way below and at
grade of West 67th Street by
installing, using, and maintaining a
frost slab, pier shoring, and an
entrance doorway at the following
locations:

The City Record

5

Below Grade frost slab and
pier shoring
Legal Description of 3.5 foot wide
Encroachment Area For
Near West Theatre, Inc.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot
Number 32, bounded and described as
follows: Beginning at the intersection
of the northerly line of Detroit
Avenue N.W. (66 feet wide) with the
westerly line of West 67th Street (40
feet wide), said point also being the
southeasterly corner of a parcel of
land conveyed to Near West Theatre,
Inc., as recorded in File Number
______________________ of Cuyahoga
County Deed Records;
Thence along the westerly line of
said West 67th Street, North 00°52'45"
East, a distance of 70.74 feet to the
Principal Place of Beginning;
Thence continuing along the westerly line of said West 67th Street,
North 00°52'45" East, a distance of
150.68 feet to the northeasterly corner
of said parcel of land conveyed to
Near West Theatre, Inc.
Thence South 89°07'15" East a distance of 3.50 feet to a point;
Thence parallel with the aforesaid
westerly line of West 67th Street bearing South 00°52'45" West, a distance
of 150.68 feet to a point;
Thence North 89°09'47" West a distance of 3.50 feet to the Principal
Place of Beginning and containing
0.0121 acre of land according to a survey by Matthew C. Neff, Professional
Ohio Surveyor #7315, of the M. Neff
Design Group dated February 26,
2013. Be the same more or less but subject to all legal highways Below
Grade Legal Description of 3.5 foot
wide Encroachment Area For Near
West Theatre, Inc.

Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Capital Projects. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans and
specifications first approved by the
Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain
all other required permits, including
but not limited to Building Permits,
before
installing
the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
a prospective Permittee has properly
indemnified the City against any loss
that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry
to
the
encroachment
location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Property; Planning,
Development, Planning and Sustainability.

At Grade entrance doorway.
Legal Description of 3.5 foot wide
Encroachment Area For
Near West Theatre, Inc.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot
Number 32, bounded and described as
follows: Beginning at the intersection
of the northerly line of Detroit
Avenue N.W. (66 feet wide) with the
westerly line of West 67th Street (40
feet wide), said point also being the
southeasterly corner of a parcel of
land conveyed to Near West Theatre,
Inc., as recorded in File Number
______________________ of Cuyahoga
County Deed Records;
Thence along the westerly line of
said West 67th Street, North 00°52'45"
East, a distance of 185.02 feet to the
Principal Place of Beginning;
Thence continuing along the westerly line of said West 67th Street,
North 00°52'45" East, a distance of
15.00 feet to a point.
Thence South 89°07'15" East a distance of 3.50 feet to a point;
Thence parallel with the aforesaid
westerly line of West 67th Street bearing South 00°52'45" West, a distance
of 15.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 89°09'47" West a distance of 3.50 feet to the Principal
Place of Beginning and containing
0.0012 acre of land according to a survey by Matthew C. Neff, Professional
Ohio Surveyor #7315, of the M. Neff
Design Group dated February 26,
2013. Be the same more or less but subject to all legal highways.

Ord. No. 302-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2012-180 with SourceLink,
Ohio LLC to provide professional services relating to the customer care
and billing systems for the Divisions
of Water and Cleveland Public
Power.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 409-12, passed April
23, 2012, the Director of Public Utilities entered into Contract No. PS
2012-180 with SourceLink, Ohio LLC
to
provide
professional
services
relating to the customer care and
billing systems for the Divisions of
Water and Cleveland Public Power;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 409-12
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to exercise
the first option to renew Contract No.
PS 2012-180 for an additional year in
the approximate amount of $1,500,000
with SourceLink, Ohio LLC to provide
professional services relating to the
customer care and billing systems for
the Divisions of Water and Cleveland
Public Power. This ordinance consti-

249

6
tutes
the
additional
legislative
authority required by Ordinance No.
409-12 to exercise this option. (RQS
2002, RL 2014-7)
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 304-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an agreement
with Applied Industrial Technologies
and to release debt reserve proceeds
from a zero coupon bond that the City
holds to Applied Industrial Technologies, towards the purchase of their
headquarters building at 3201 Euclid
Avenue.
Whereas, Applied Industrial Technologies, formerly known as Bearings, Inc., (“Applied”) is a Fortune
1000 Company with its headquarters
located
at
Applied
Plaza,
3201
Euclid Avenue (Permanent Parcel
Nos. 103-07-001 and 103-06-003) in
Cleveland; and
Whereas, in 1996, the City worked
with the State, Cleveland Development Partnership, Cuyahoga County,
and the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County
Port Authority (“Port Authority”) to
construct a deal with Applied to
build their headquarters in the City
of Cleveland; and
Whereas, among other things, the
1996 deal provided that the Port
Authority would acquire the land
and construct the new headquarters
and that Applied would lease the
property from the Port Authority for
a term of 20 years funded in part by
bonds issued by the Port Authority,
which would be repaid over 20 years
with a balloon payment of $3.8 million due in 2016; and
Whereas, the lease also provided
for an option for Applied to renew
the lease or an option for Applied to
purchase the property outright at
the end of the term and if neither
option were exercised by Applied,
then the City of Cleveland would
own the building in 2016; and
Whereas, the approximately $3.8
million debt reserve would pay the
bonds, however, the City would be
required to pay balloons to the State
in an approximate amount of $4 million and Cleveland Development
Partnership an approximate amount
of $1.9 million if another buyer was
not immediately available; and
Whereas, it is in the best interests
of the parties to restructure the 1996
deal; and
Whereas, under the restructured
deal, Applied will remain in Cleveland and purchase the property,
eliminating the obligation of the
City to purchase the property at the
end of the lease for an approximate
amount of $5.9 million; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
release debt reserve proceeds from a
zero coupon bond that the City holds,
with an estimated current value of
$3,843,741.74, and any interest accrued
from the date of the passage of this
ordinance to Applied, towards the
purchase of their headquarters building at Permanent Parcel Nos. 103-07001 and 103-06-003, in exchange for
Applied’s obligation to keep its headquarters in Cleveland for a period of
at least 10 years.
Section 2. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement with Applied
containing terms and conditions necessary to implement this ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Development, Planning and
Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 305-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more contracts of paging equipment, cellular
devices and data services, and for
wireless connectivity and equipment,
and various related products and services, including maintenance, training, support and monthly fees and
charges for citywide use, for the Division of Information Technology and
Services, Department of Finance, for
a period of one year, with two oneyear options to renew, the second of
which requires additional legislative
authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one or
more written contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or
all of the following items: paging
equipment, cellular devices and data
services, and for wireless connectivity and equipment, and various related
products and services, including
maintenance, training, support and
monthly fees and charges for citywide use, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis, for the Division of
Information Technology and Services, Department of Finance, for a
period of one year, with two one-year
options to renew, the second of which
requires
additional
legislative
authority.
Section 2. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Finance may sign all
documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 3. That the cost of the initial
contract or contracts authorized shall
not exceed $625,000, and the cost of

250

March 5, 2014
the first option, if exercised, shall not
exceed $625,000, if appropriated in
budget year 2015 for this purpose, and
each shall be paid from the fund or
funds designated by the Director of
Finance for this purpose.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 306-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment
Financing Agreement with the County of Cuyahoga, Ohio, or its designee,
to partially finance the construction
of an approximately 600-room, 580,000
square feet Hotel, adjacent to the
Global Center for Health Innovation
and Cleveland Convention Center, to
be located at 1219 Ontario Street,
Cleveland; to provide for payments to
the Cleveland City School District;
and to declare certain improvements
to real property to be a public purpose.
Whereas, the City is engaged in
various urban redevelopment activities for the development and improvement of downtown Cleveland, including certain activities in support of the
Connecting Cleveland 2020 Plan, the
Cleveland Downtown Lakefront Plan
and the report of the group Plan Commission; and
Whereas, to continue to carry out
its urban redevelopment activities, to
eliminate deteriorating conditions
and to prevent the recurrence of those
conditions, the City entered into a
Cooperative Agreement dated as of
December 17, 2013 (the “Cooperative
Agreement”) with the County of
Cuyahoga, Ohio (the “County”) and
the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port
Authority (the “Port Authority”) that
provided for undertaking certain
cooperative actives including financing, constructing, owning and operating a public hotel to be built on publicly-owned land adjacent to the Global Center for Health Innovation and
Cleveland Convention Center and the
City’s Mall B (the “Hotel Project”)
which cooperative activities have
been determined to be a proper public
purpose of the City; and
Whereas, to further carry out those
urban redevelopment activities and to
provide for the Hotel Project pursuant to the terms of the Cooperative
Agreement, and to satisfy the requirements of Ohio Revised Code Section
5709.41, and under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1518-13, passed December 2, 2013, the City acquired from the
County certain property described
[on Exhibit A attached hereto] (the
“Property”) and the City has conveyed the Property to the Port
Authority prior to the adoption of this
ordinance; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Ohio Revised Code, improvements
to real property may be declared to be
a public purpose where fee title to the
real property was, at one time, held by
the City of Cleveland and the real

The City Record

March 5, 2014
property is then leased or conveyed
by the City; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Ohio Revised Code, the improvements declared to be a public purpose
may be exempt from real property
taxation; and
Whereas, the City has determined
that it is necessary and appropriate
and in the best interest of carrying
out its public purposes as part of its
cooperative activities and in the best
interests of the City to provide for
annual service payments in lieu of
taxes with respect to the Property
(“Service Payments”) pursuant to Sections 5709.41 to 5709.43 of the Ohio
Revised Code; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Ohio Revised Code, the exemption
may exceed 75% of the improvements
for up to 30 years when a portion of
the Service Payments so collected are
distributed to the Cleveland Metropolitan School District (“District”) in an
amount equal to the amount the District would have received had the
improvement not been exempt; and
Whereas, the District has been notified of the City’s intent to declare
improvements to be a public purpose,
in
compliance
with
Sections
5709.41(C)(4) and 5709.83 of the Ohio
Revised Code; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to and in
accordance with the provisions of
Ohio Revised Code Section 5709.41,
this Council hereby finds and determines that 100% of the increase in
assessed value of the Property subsequent to its acquisition by the City
(which increase in assessed value is
referred
to
as
the
hereinafter
“Improvement” as defined in Section
5709.41) will be a public purpose, and
said Improvement is hereby declared
to be exempt from real property taxation commencing on the effective date
of this ordinance and ending after the

Improvements have been exempted
from real property taxation for 30
years, all in accordance with the
requirements of Ohio Revised Code
Sections 5709.41 and 5709.42.
Section 2. That, as provided in Section 5709.42 of the Revised Code, the
owner or owners of the Improvement
are hereby required to and shall pay
the Service Payments to the Cuyahoga County Treasurer on or before
the final dates for payment of real
property taxes. Those Service Payments shall be distributed to the District, in an amount equal to the
amounts the District would otherwise
receive as real property tax payments
derived from the Improvement absent
the exemption provided for in this
ordinance, and to the City, all remaining amounts for further deposit in the
urban redevelopment tax increment
equivalent fund established in Section 3 hereof. This Council hereby
authorizes the Mayor, Director of
Finance, Director of Economic Development, and Law Director, and other
appropriate officers of the City, to
provide such information and certifications, and execute and deliver or
accept delivery of such instruments,
as are necessary and incidental to collect those Service Payments, and to
make such arrangements as are necessary and proper for payment of the
Service Payments.
Section 3. That under Section
5709.43 of the Revised Code, there is
established an Urban Redevelopment
Tax Increment Equivalent Fund (the
“Fund”) into which shall be deposited
the Service Payments distributed to
the City with respect to the Improvement on the Property, by or on behalf
of the County Treasurer as provided
in Section 5709.42 of the Revised Code.
One hundred percent (100%) of the
moneys distributed to the City shall
be deposited in the Fund and shall be
used for the purpose of funding Hotel
Project debt and, consistent with the
Cooperative Agreement, delivered to
the County, or as otherwise directed
to the County, promptly following
receipt by the City of each payment.
The Fund shall remain in existence so

7
long as such service payments are collected, after which the Fund may be
dissolved in accordance with Section
5709.43.
Section 4. That, pursuant to Section
5709.41 of the Ohio Revised Code, the
Clerk of this Council is hereby directed to deliver a copy of this Ordinance
to the Director of the Development
Services Agency of the State of Ohio
(“DSA”) within fifteen days after its
passage. On or before March 31 of
each year that the exemption set forth
in Section 1 hereof remains in effect,
the Clerk or other authorized officer
of this City shall prepare and submit
to the Director of the DSA the status
report
required
under
Section
5709.41(E) of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement or agreements with the owner or owners of
the Property that may be necessary or
desirable to provide for the exemption
and service payments described in
this ordinance, including agreements
securing the payments described in
this ordinance, which agreement or
agreements shall contain terms consistent with the executive summary
which has been placed in File No. 30614-A.
Section 6. That it is found and determined that all formal actions of this
Council concerning and relating to
the passage of this ordinance were
adopted in open meetings of this
Council, and any of its committees
that resulted in formal action were in
meetings open to the public in compliance with the law.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Development, Planning and
Sustainability, Finance.

FIRST READING ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 309-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands located on the east side of West 117th Street and
on both sides of West 116th Street south of Clifton Boulevard and along the railroad tracks as shown on the attached map
to General Retail Business, Local Retail Business, Multi-Family Residential, Two Family Residential, a ‘B’, ‘C’ or ‘D’
Area District and a ‘1’, ‘2’ or ‘3’ Height District (Map Change No. 2478).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of Detroit Avenue and W. 117th Street;
Thence northerly along the centerline of W. 117th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the
northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to BAMF LLC by deed dated April 15, 2008 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200804150571 said parcel also being known as 001-20-001;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation to its intersection with the northerly line of said parcel;
Thence easterly along said northerly line a distance of 140.03 feet to its intersection with the easterly line of said parcel;
Thence southerly along said easterly line a distance of 16.25 feet to its intersection with the northerly line of said parcel;
Thence easterly along said northerly line a distance of 25.00 feet to its intersection with the easterly line of said parcel;
Thence southerly along said easterly line a distance of 38.95 feet to its intersection with the southerly line of said parcel;
Thence westerly along said southerly line a distance of 68.20 feet to its intersection with the easterly line of said parcel;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of
Detroit Avenue;
Thence westerly along Detroit Avenue to its intersection with the place of origin;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District.

251

8

The City Record

March 5, 2014

Section 2. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of Detroit Avenue and W. 117th Street;
Thence northerly along the centerline of W. 117th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the
southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to GFS MARKETPLACE REALTY FIVE LLC by deed dated December 20,
2012 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 201212200567 said parcel also being known as 001-20-057;
Thence easterly along said prolongation and southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the southerly line thereof;
Thence easterly along said southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the southerly line thereof;
Thence easterly along said southerly line to its intersection with easterly line thereof;
Thence northerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line thereof;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of W.
116th Street;
Thence northerly along the centerline of W. 116th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
southerly line of Sublot No. 1 in the Charles A. Cook Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 16, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line thereof;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the northerly line of
a parcel of land conveyed to PAPPAS, TOM by deed dated May 15, 2003 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number
200305190028 said parcel also being known as 001-20-073;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of W.
117th Street;
Thence northerly along the centerline of W. 117th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the
northerly line of Sublot No. 10 in the S.B. Marshall Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 15, Page 34 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line thereof;
Thence northerly along the northerly prolongation of said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly line of a
parcel of land conveyed to Kazimour, Jeffrey M. and Kazimour, Terri L. by deed dated June 3, 1996 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number V96051380008 said parcel also being known as 001-21-006;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and its westerly prolongation to its intersection with W 117th Street;
Thence southerly along the centerline of W. 117th Street to its intersection with the place of origin;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District.
Section 3. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of Clifton Boulevard and W. 117th Street;
Thence southerly along the centerline of W. 117th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the
northerly line of Sublot No. 10 in the S.B. Marshall Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 15, Page 34 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the northerly line of
a parcel of land conveyed to PAPPAS, TOM by deed dated May 15, 2003 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number
200305190028 said parcel also being known as 001-20-073;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of W.
117th Street;
Thence northerly along the centerline of W. 117th Street to its intersection with the place of origin;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a General Retail Business District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height
District.
Section 4. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of W. 116th Street and Clifton Boulevard;
Thence southerly along the centerline of W. 116th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the
southerly line of Sublot No. 42 in the Charles A. Cook Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 16, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and southerly line to its intersection with the southerly line of
Sublot No. 50 in said allotment;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot No. 49 in said allotment;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line of a
parcel of land conveyed to Delrio, Abraham and Delrio, Francisca by deed dated June 1, 1999 and recorded in Auditor’s
File Number 199906010511 said parcel also being known as 001-20-080;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of W.
114th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the northerly line of Sublot
No. 71 in the Clifton Boulevard (Walton Realty Company) Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 29, Page 17
of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and northerly line and its westerly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of W. 116th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Carisa White by deed dated April 14, 2000 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200004140021
said parcel also being known as 001-20-054;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line thereof;
Thence northerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to
Holda Rosemary&Rose(Life Est by deed dated March 22, 1985 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number V85512860024 said
parcel also being known as 001-20-055;
Thence westerly along said southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line thereof;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the northerly line of
a parcel of land conveyed to Mc Clelland Charles E and Mc Clelland Doris L by deed dated October 17, 1985 and recorded
in Auditor’s File Number V85558430003 said parcel also being known as 001-20-056;

252

March 5, 2014

The City Record

9

Thence easterly along said northerly line and its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of W.
116th Street;
Thence northerly along the centerline of W. 116th Street to its intersection with the place of origin;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Two Family District, a ‘B’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height District.
Section 5. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of Clifton Boulevard and W. 116th Street;
Thence southerly along the centerline of W. 116th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
northerly line of Sublot No. 2 in the Charles A. Cook Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 16, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and northerly line to its intersection with the westerly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly line and its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the southerly line of
Sublot No. 1 in said allotment;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of W.
116th Street;
Thence northerly along the centerline of W. 116th Street to its intersection with the place of origin;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Multi Family District, a ‘D’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District.
Section 6. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 through 5 shall be identified as Map Change
No. 2478, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by
the City Planning Commission.
Section 7. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on Development, Planning and Sustainability.

253

The City Record

10
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 303-14.
By Council Members Mitchell, K.
Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
final consent of the City of Cleveland
to the State of Ohio for the rehabilitation of Larchmere Boulevard from
Martin Luther King Jr., Boulevard to
North Moreland; authorizing the
Director of Capital Projects to enter
into contracts with the State of Ohio;
and causing payment to the State of
Ohio for the City’s share of the
improvement.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 170312, passed December 3, 2012 this Council authorized the City of Cleveland to
cooperate with the Director of Transportation for the rehabilitation of
Larchmere Boulevard from Martin
Luther King Jr., Boulevard to North
Moreland PID 89695 (the “Improvement”); and
Whereas, the City shall cooperate
with the Ohio Director of Transportation in the above described project by
assuming and bearing one hundred
percent (100%) of the entire cost of
the Improvement within City limits,
less the amount of Federal-aid
NOACA funds set aside by the Director of Transportation for the financing of this Improvement from funds
allocated by the Federal Highway
Administration, U.S. Department of
Transportation, and further, the City
agrees to assume and bear one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of
Preliminary Engineering and rightof-way, excluding in-house preliminary engineering and right-of-way
charges incurred by the State; and
Whereas, the share of the City’s
cost of the Improvement is now estimated to be $560,728, but may be
adjusted when the percentages of
actual costs are determined; and
Whereas, the City agrees to assume
and contribute 100% of the cost of any
items included in the construction
contract at the request of the City,
which are determined by the State not
eligible or made necessary by the
Improvement; and
Whereas, the Ohio Director of
Transportation has approved the legislation proposing cooperation and
has caused to be made plans and specifications and an estimate of costs
and expense for the Improvement and
has transmitted copies of the same to
this legislative authority; and
Whereas, the City desires the Ohio
Director of Transportation to proceed
with the Improvement; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
1.
That
this
Council
Section
requests the Ohio Director of Transportation
to
proceed
with
the
Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
contracts with the State and/or their
pre-qualified consultants for the preliminary engineering phase of the
Project, and to enter into contracts
with the Director of Transportation
necessary to complete the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized and directed to transmit

to the State three (3) certified copies
of this ordinance immediately on its
taking effect, and it shall become the
basis
for
proceeding
with
the
Improvement.
Section 4. That this Council is
authorized to cause payment to the
State of the City’s share of the
Improvement, payable from Fund
Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF 534, 20
SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, 20 SF 809,
20 SF 838, and 52 SF 001, RQS 0103, RL
2014-14.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 307-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit
for
the
Ragin
Cajin
Run/Walk, on March 4, 2014, sponsored by Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the Ragin Cajin Run/Walk, on March
4, 2014, starting at West 6th Street and
Lakeside Avenue; east on Lakeside to
East 9th Street; south on East 9th to
Superior Avenue; east on Superior to
East 12th Street; south on East 12th to
Chester Avenue; west on Chester to
East 9th Street; south on East 9th to
Prospect Avenue; west on Prospect to
East 4th Street; north on East 4th to
Euclid Avenue; west on Euclid to
Ontario Street; north on Ontario to St.
Clair Avenue; west on St. Clair to
West 6th Street; north on West 6th to
Lakeside Avenue and finish; provided
that the applicant sponsor shall meet
all the requirements of Section 411.05
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed
as determined by the Chief of Police
and safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants in
the event. Said permit shall further
provide that the City of Cleveland
shall be fully indemnified from any
and all liability resulting from the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

254

March 5, 2014
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 308-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the St. Malachi’s Church
Run, on March 15, 2014, sponsored by
Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the St. Malachi’s Church Run, on
March 15, 2014, starting at Veterans
Memorial
Bridge;
east
on
Bridge/Superior Avenue to West 6th
Street; north on West 6th to St. Clair
Avenue; east on St. Clair to Ontario
Street; north on Ontario to Lakeside
Avenue; west on Lakeside to West
3rd; north on West 3rd to Erieside
Avenue; east on Erieside to North
Marginal Road; east on North Marginal to Burke Airport Loop Drive; Airport Loop Drive around to North Marginal Road; west on North Marginal to
Erieside Avenue; west on Erieside to
West 3rd Street; south on West 3rd to
Lakeside Avenue; west on Lakeside
to West 10th Street; south on West
10th to Robert Lockwood Drive; west
on Robert Lockwood to Center Street;
north on Center to Winslow Avenue
and finish; provided that the applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary in
order to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and all
liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 310-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the City Planning
Commission to enter into agreement
with Slavic Village Development for
the Slavic Village Broadway Gateway Project “Cycle of Arches”
through the use of Wards 12 and 5
Casino Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

March 5, 2014
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission be authorized to enter into agreement with
Slavic Village Development for the
Slavic Village Broadway Gateway
Project “Cycle of Arches” for the public purpose of promoting public art in
the city of Cleveland through the use
of Ward (s) 12 and 5 Casino Funds
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $90,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 311-14.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance amending
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1533-13
passed November 11, 2013 as it pertains to authorizing the Director of
the Department of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with University Settlement, Inc. for
the Hunger Center Program through
the use of Wards 5 and 12 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1533-13 passed on November
11, 2013 is hereby amended to read as
follow:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development be authorized to enter into an
agreement effective July 1, 2013 with
University Settlement, Inc. for the
Hunger Center Program for the public purpose of providing food and hot
meals to low income residents residing in the city of Cleveland through
the use of Ward(s) 5 and 12 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1533-13 passed on November
11, 2013 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 312-14.
By Council Members Zone, Pruitt,
Cummins,
Conwell,
Cleveland,
Polensek, Mitchell and, Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution urging
the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency to deny the United States
Army Corps of Engineers’ (Corps)
application to dispose of contaminated dredge from the Cuyahoga River
federal shipping canal in Lake Erie;
and urging the Corps to continue the
current practice of using confined disposal facilities —or working with the
Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port
Authority on an environmentally
sound alternative.
Whereas, in a public notice last
December, the Corps announced its
intention to place dredged, contaminated river sediment aboard scows
and tow it out to dump sites in Lake
Erie as early as April 1, 2014; and
Whereas, the Corps applied to the
Ohio
Environmental
Protection
Agency for approval to dispose of contaminated dredge from the Cuyahoga
River federal shipping canal in Lake
Erie for the first time in forty years;
and
Whereas, this open-lake dumping
would discharge muck soiled with
contaminants, such as PCBs, just
west of the intakes for the municipal
drinking water treatment plants that
serve Greater Cleveland; and
Whereas, high levels of PCBs, plus
residual amounts of the pesticide
DDT, pose an unacceptable risk to
humans, wildlife, and birds that eat
fish from the lake, such as walleye
and perch; and
Whereas, the Ohio Environmental
Council and the Dike 14 Nature Preserve Committee oppose the openlake dumping plan; and
Whereas, the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency will host a public
meeting to solicit comments on this
application on Thursday, March 6,
2014 at 4:30 p.m. in the Martin Luther
King Jr. branch of the Cleveland Public Library, located at 1962 Stokes
Blvd. on the western edge of University Circle; and
Whereas, this Council encourages
Cleveland citizens to attend this public meeting and speak out against
open-lake dumping; and
Whereas, this Council urges the
Ohio
Environmental
Protection
Agency to deny the Corps’ application, and force the Corps to continue
the current practice of using confined
disposal facilities – or work with the
Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port
Authority on a workable and environmentally sound alternative to dumping; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the Ohio Environmental Protection

255

11
Agency to deny the United States
Army Corps of Engineers’ (Corps)
application to dispose of contaminated dredge from the Cuyahoga River
federal shipping canal in Lake Erie;
and urges the Corps to continue the
current practice of using confined disposal facilities — or working with the
Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port
Authority on an environmentally
sound alternative.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit certified copies of this resolution to the
Ohio
Environmental
Protection
Agency and the United States Army
Corps of Engineers.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 313-14.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New D3A
Liquor Permit at 6966 Broadway
Avenue, 1st floor and basement, Unit
1 and repealing Resolution No. 134613, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
New D3A Liquor Permit to 6966 Broadway Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Unit 1 by Resolution No. 1346-13 adopted by the Council on September 30,
2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
D3A Liquor Permit to Alliance Event
Center, LLC, DBA Alliance Event
Center, 6966 Broadway Avenue, 1st
floor and basement, Unit 1, Cleveland,
Ohio
44105,
Permanent
Number
01377680005, be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1346-13, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.

12
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 314-14.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit at 5300 Superior Avenue and
repealing Resolution No. 1206-13,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of liquor license of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Daniel
Roman, Inc., 5300 Superior Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent No.
7494401, adopted by the Council on
September 16, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to Daniel Roman,
Inc., 5300 Superior Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44103, Permanent No. 7494401, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1206-13, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 332-14.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a D1 and D2 Liquor
Permit at 12307 St. Clair Avenue and
repealing Resolution No. 1067-13,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of liquor license of a D1
and D2 Liquor Permit to Food Xpress
and Gas, Inc., DBA Gas USA, 12307 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108,
Permanent Number 2805847 by Resolution No. 1067-13 adopted by the
Council on August 14, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of liquor license and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1
and D2 Liquor Permit to Food Xpress
and Gas, Inc., DBA Gas USA, 12307 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108,
Permanent Number 2805847, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1067-13, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 333-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D1, D2, D3 and D6
Liquor Permit at 55 Public Square, 1st
floor, basement and patio and repealing Resolution No. 1355-13, objecting
to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D1, D2,
D3 and D6 Liquor Permit to 55 Public
Square, 1st floor, basement and patio,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent No.
50966040010 by Resolution No. 1355-13
adopted by the Council on September
30, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3
and D6 Liquor Permit to 55 Public
Square, 1st floor, basement and patio,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent No.
50966040010, be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1355-13, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.

256

March 5, 2014
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY ORDINANCE
Ord. No. 180-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make
appropriations and provide current
expenses for the daily operation of all
municipal departments of the City of
Cleveland for the fiscal year from
January 1, 2014 until December 31,
2014.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance, when amended,
as follows:
1. In Section 1, strike lines 3 and
4 in their entirety and insert “The
sum of Five Hundred Forty Million,
Five Hundred Eighty-Nine Thousand, Seven Hundred Eighty-One
Dollars ($540,589,781) from the General Fund;”.
2. In Section 1, strike lines 13 and
14 in their entirety and insert “The
sum of Eighty-Six Million, Six Hundred Ninety Thousand, Four Hundred Sixty Dollars ($86,690,460) from
the Debt Service Fund;”.
3. In Section 1, at the list under
“Executive Branch”, at “Department
of Public Health” strike “5,563,719”
and insert “5,763,719”; at “Department
of
Public
Safety”
strike
“309,137,283” and insert “309,187,909”;
at “Department of Public Works”
strike
“66,390,729”
and
insert
“66,441,355”;
at
“Total
Executive
strike
“493,283,884”
and
Branch”
insert “493,585,136”; at “TOTAL GENERAL FUND” strike “540,288,529”
and insert “540,589,781” at “Debt Service Funds” strike “70,690,460” and
insert “86,690,460”; and at “TOTAL
APPROPRIATIONS
FOR
2014”
strike
“1,469,741,143”
and
insert
“1,486,042,395”.
4. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC
HEALTH”
at
“Division
of
Health”, strike “3,179,286” and insert
“3,379,286”; at “II Other Expenses”
strike
“1,253,213”
and
insert
“1,453,213”;
and
at
“TOTAL
DEPARTMENT
OF
PUBLIC
HEALTH”, strike “5,563,719” and
insert “5,763,719”.
5. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY” at “Division of Animal
Control
Services”,
strike
“1,374,317” and insert “1,424,943”; at “I
Personnel and Related Expenses”,
strike “979,164” and insert “1,029,790”;
and at TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF
PUBLIC
SAFETY”,
strike
“309,137,283” and insert “309,187,909”.
6. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS” at “Division of Property Management”, strike “7,960,191”
and insert “8,010,817”; at “I Personnel and Related Expenses” strike
“5,482,736” and insert “5,533,362”; and
at “TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS”, strike “66,390,729” and
insert “66,441,355”.
7. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at the end, at the total on
page 8, at “TOTAL EXECUTIVE
BRANCH”, strike “493,283,884” and
insert “493,585,136”; and at “TOTAL
GENERAL
FUND”,
strike
“540,288,529” and insert “540,589,781”.
8. In Section 1, on page 11, at
“DEBT SERVICE FUND”, at “Sinking
Fund
Commission”
strike
“70,690,460” and insert “86,690,460”, at
“III Debt Service”, strike “70,690,460”

The City Record

March 5, 2014
and
insert
“86,690,460”,
and
at
“TOTAL DEBT SERVICE FUNDS,
strike
“70,690,460”
and
insert
“86,690,460”.
Amendments agreed to.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 123-14.
By Council Members Cleveland, K.
Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 75213, passed May 20, 2013, relating to the
sale of City-owned property located at
the northwest corner of Crayton
Avenue and East 51st Street to the
Perk Company Inc., for purposes of
redevelopment.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Development, Planning and Sustainability, Municipal Services and Property, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 190-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 34 and 39 of Ordinance No.
1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as
amended, relating to compensation
for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Committee
on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 197-14.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into amendments to
Contract Nos. 49981 and 49982 with
National Terminals LLC, to accept
discount prepayments of its UDAG
and NDIF loans regarding the development of a housing and retail
space in the National Terminal
Building, located at West Ninth and
Main Avenue.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Development, Planning and

13
Sustainability,
Finance,
when
amended, as follows:
1. In the title, lines 4 and 5, and
in the first whereas clause, line 3,
strike “National Terminals LLC” and
insert “National Terminal Apartments Limited Liability Company”
in both places.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 280-14.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the submission to the electors of
the City of Cleveland of a proposal
to amend Section 33 of the Charter
of the City of Cleveland relating to
the Enactment of Ordinances and
Resolutions.
Approved by Director of Law; Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

APPROPRIATION FOR THE YEAR 2014
(SECOND READING EMERGENCY ORDINANCE)
ORDINANCE NO. 180-14
Ord. No. 180-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make appropriations and provide current expenses for the daily operation of all
municipal departments of the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year from January 1, 2014 until December 31, 2014.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the daily operation of a municipal
department; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That to provide for the current expenses for the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2014, the following sums be and they are hereby appropriated viz:
The sum of Five Hundred Forty Million, Five Hundred Eighty-Nine Thousand, Seven Hundred Eighty-One Dollars ($540,589,781) from the General Fund;
The sum of Seventy Seven Million, Seven Hundred Seventy Seven Thousand, One Hundred Twenty Four Dollars ($77,777,124) from the Special Revenue Funds;
The sum of Eighty Five Million, Six Hundred Twenty Five Thousand, Eight Hundred Eighty Three Dollars
($85,625,883) from the Internal Service Funds;
The sum of Six Hundred Eighty Five Million, One Hundred Twenty Two Thousand, Eight Hundred Forty Seven
Dollars ($685,122,847) from the Enterprise Funds;
The sum of Ten Million, Two Hundred Thirty Six Thousand, Three Hundred Dollars ($10,236,300) from the Trust
and Agency Funds;
The sum of Eighty-Six Million, Six Hundred Ninety Thousand, Four Hundred Sixty Dollars ($86,690,460) from
the Debt Service Fund;
All set forth in the Mayor's Estimate on file with Council and identified in the aggregate amount for each
department as follows:
GENERAL FUND
Legislative Branch
Judicial Branch
Executive Branch
General Government
Department of Aging
Department of Human Resources
Department of Law
Department of Finance
Department of Public Health
Department of Public Safety
Department of Public Works
Department of Community Development
Department of Building and Housing
Department of Economic Development
Nondepartmental
Total Executive Branch
TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$

6,937,206
40,067,439

13,697,250
1,119,361
2,182,400
10,625,473
15,095,079
5,763,719
309,187,909
66,441,355
292,661
9,744,178
1,734,407
57,701,344
———————
$493,585,136
———————
———————
$540,589,781
———————
———————

257

The City Record

14

March 5, 2014

Special Revenue Funds
Internal Service Funds
Enterprise Funds
Agency Funds
Debt Service Funds

77,777,124
85,625,883
685,122,847
10,236,300
86,690,460
———————
$1,486,042,395
———————
———————

TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR 2014

GENERAL FUND
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
Council and Clerk of Council
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

6,937,206

4,924,401
2,012,805
———————
$
6,937,206
———————
———————

TOTAL LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

JUDICIAL BRANCH
Municipal Court - Judicial Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

22,072,868

$

14,411,958

$

3,582,613

$ 19,404,866
2,668,002

Municipal Court - Clerk's Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

9,402,010
5,009,948

Municipal Court - Housing Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

3,425,754
156,859
———————
$
40,067,439
———————
———————

TOTAL JUDICIAL BRANCH
EXECUTIVE BRANCH
GENERAL GOVERNMENT
Office of the Mayor
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,445,626
122,551

Office of Capital Projects
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

4,563,722
552,694

Landmarks Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

236,627
7,168

Board of Building Standards and Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

124,201
11,584

Board of Zoning Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

220,089
15,108

Civil Service Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

612,365
191,155

Community Relations Board
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,267,261
46,161

City Planning Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,537,955
103,630

$

7,697

Boxing and Wrestling Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

258

$

2,568,177

$

5,116,416

$

243,795

$

135,785

$

235,197

$

803,520

$

1,313,422

$

1,641,585

$

7,697

March 5, 2014

The City Record

15

Office of Equal Opportunity
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

824,038
23,880

Office of Budget & Management-Budget Admin.
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

762,532
21,206

$

847,918

$

783,738

———————
$
13,697,250
———————
———————

TOTAL GENERAL GOVERNMENT

DEPARTMENT OF AGING
Department of Aging
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

1,119,361

841,651
277,710
———————
1,119,361
$
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF AGING

DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES
Office of Personnel
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

2,182,400

1,394,558
787,842
———————
$
2,182,400
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES

DEPARTMENT OF LAW
Division of Law
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

10,625,473

6,519,859
4,105,614
———————
$
10,625,473
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF LAW

DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
Finance Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

916,726
346,420

Division of Accounts
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,336,536
682,611

Division of Assessments and Licenses
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,395,114
1,375,006

Division of Treasury
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

633,407
95,149

Division of Purchases and Supplies
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

685,772
35,048

Bureau of Internal Audit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

590,187
634,154

Division of Financial Reporting and Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,335,505
19,542

Information Systems Services
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,117,180
1,896,722

$

1,263,146

$

2,019,147

$

3,770,120

$

728,556

$

720,820

$

1,224,341

$

1,355,047

$

4,013,902

———————
$
15,095,079
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

259

16

The City Record

March 5, 2014

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Public Health Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

670,811
333,513

Division of Health
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,926,073
1,453,213

Division of Environment
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

779,623
208,609

Division of Air Quality
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

110,777
281,100

$

1,004,324

$

3,379,286

$

988,232

$

391,877

———————
$
5,763,719
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Public Safety Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

Division of Police
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$168,752,089
10,271,401

Division of Fire
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 82,318,193
3,785,760

Division of Emergency Medical Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 20,426,772
2,616,539

Division of Animal Control Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Division of Correction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

4,899,053

3,553,854
1,345,199
$ 179,023,490

$

$

86,103,953

$

23,043,311

$

1,424,943

$

14,693,159

1,029,790
395,153

$ 10,877,152
3,816,007
———————
$ 309,187,909
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Division of Public Works Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,810,254
202,762

Division of Recreation
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

8,153,758
3,996,035

Division of Parking Facilities-On Street
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,148,983
85,261

Division of Property Management
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,533,362
2,477,455

Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

8,400,230
5,169,073

Division of Waste Collection and Disposal
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

260

$ 13,674,442
11,323,586

$

3,013,016

$

12,149,793

$

1,234,244

$

8,010,817

$

13,569,303

$

24,998,028

The City Record

March 5, 2014

Division of Traffic Engineering
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

17
$
$

3,466,154

2,658,405
807,749
———————
$
66,441,355
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Department of Community Development Director's Office
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$
280,645
II.
Other Expenses
12,016
TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

$

292,661

———————
$
292,661
———————
———————

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING
Building and Housing Director’s Office
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,703,239
514,014

Division of Code Enforcement
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,712,984
193,500

Division of Construction Permit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,593,841
26,600

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING

$

2,217,253

$

5,906,484

$

1,620,441

———————
$ 9,744,178
———————
———————

DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Economic Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

1,734,407

1,668,285
66,122

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

———————
$ 1,734,407
———————
———————

NONDEPARTMENTAL
County Auditor Deductions
II.
Other Expenses

$

Other Administrative
II.
Other Expenses

$ 22,464,124

Transfers to Other Funds
II.
Other Expenses

$ 32,923,220

$

2,314,000

$

22,464,124

$

32,923,220

2,314,000

———————
$
57,701,344
———————
———————

TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL
TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH

$ 493,585,136
———————
———————

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$ 540,589,781
———————
———————
SPECIAL REVENUE FUND

Restricted Income Tax Fund
I.
Capital
II.
Debt Service

$

38,430,983

Street Construction, Maintenance & Repair Fund
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$ 15,153,579
II.
Other Expenses
12,294,313

$

27,447,892

Schools Recreation & Cultural Activities Fund
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,175,000

$

10,723,249

$ 38,430,983
-

$

1,175,000

Division of Public Auditorium & Stadium-Stadium
II.
Other Expenses
$ 10,723,249

———————
$ 77,777,124
———————
———————

TOTAL SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS

261

The City Record

18

March 5, 2014

INTERNAL SERVICE FUND
Sinking Fund Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

$

956,640

$

6,836,306

$

19,713,041

$

2,757,892

$

565,031

$

44,896,329

$

9,897,644

233,340
726,300

Information Systems Services-Telephone Exchange
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$
II.
Other Expenses

1,274,040
5,562,266

Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,537,264
14,175,777

Division of Printing and Reproduction
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

840,860
1,917,032

City Storeroom and Central Warehouse
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 99,045
465,986

Health Self Insurance
II.
Other Expenses

$ 44,896,329

Prescription Self Insurance
II.
Other Expenses

$

9,897,644
———————
$
85,625,883
———————
———————

TOTAL INTERNAL SERVICE FUNDS

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
Utilities Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

Radio
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Division of Fiscal Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

3,186,358

$

3,512,238

$

3,886,282

$

287,253,133

$

22,685,075

$

188,852,226

2,386,696
799,662

$ 547,734
2,964,504
$

3,230,341
655,941

Division of Water
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 82,880,889
204,372,244

Division of Water Pollution Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 11,105,934
11,579,141

Division of Cleveland Public Power
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 31,418,938
157,433,288
———————
$ 509,375,312
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
Divisions of Cleveland Hopkins & Burke Lakefront
Airports - Operations
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$ 32,616,783
II.
Other Expenses
128,575,754

$

161,192,537

———————
$ 161,192,537
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Division of Cemeteries
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,212,369
468,736

Golf Course Fund
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

45,000
253,000

262

$

1,681,105

$

298,000

The City Record

March 5, 2014

19

Division of Parking Facilities-Off Street Parking
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$
II.
Other Expenses

1,262,328
7,381,587

Division of Public Auditorium
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,280,062
1,337,324

$

433,973
840,619

Division of Public Auditorium & StadiumWest Side Market
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

Division of Property Management - East Side Market
II.
Other Expenses
$

$

8,643,915

$

2,617,386

$

1,274,592

$

40,000

40,000
———————
$
14,554,998
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

$ 685,122,847
———————
———————
AGENCY FUND

Central Collection Agency
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

10,236,300

6,495,959
3,740,341
———————
$
10,236,300
———————
———————

TOTAL AGENCY FUND

DEBT SERVICE FUND
Sinking Fund Commission
III.
Debt Service

$

86,690,460

$ 86,690,460
———————
$
86,690,460
———————
———————

TOTAL DEBT SERVICE FUNDS

Section 2. That the appropriations herein made are based upon the detail of expenditures set forth in the Mayor's
Estimate, but are appropriated to the several departments, offices, and purposes in the aggregate for I. - Personnel and Related Expenses; and II. - Other Expenses and are not severally and individually appropriated in
said detail. Any unencumbered balance in an appropriation fund at the close of the year 2013 is hereby appropriated to such fund for the payment of unpaid obligations lawfully incurred in 2014 or prior years. The Mayor's
Estimate, File No. 180-14-A, as modified by the schedule published pursuant to Section 39 of the Charter shall
within the sums appropriated in Section 1 hereof, constitute the expenditure budget for the year 2014 and shall
be subject to the control of the Mayor, provided, however, that no transfer from I. - Personnel and Related Expenses, or II. - Other Expenses within any department or office, or from one department or office to another shall be
made except as provided in Section 41 of the Charter.
Section 3. That the Commissioner of Accounts is hereby authorized to draw warrants upon the City Treasury
for the amount appropriated in this ordinance, whenever claims are presented properly approved by the head of
the department or by the chief of a commission for which indebtedness was incurred.
Section 4. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force upon its
passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force at the earliest period allowed
by law.

Schedule of Changes
(Published pursuant to Section 39 of the Charter)
The following changes are made to provide for reductions/increases in various departments of City Government: to correct the total of the 2014 Appropriation Ordinance No. 180-14.

2014 Mayor's Estimate Ordinance
DIFFERENCE
EXECUTIVE BRANCH
Department of Public Health
Department of Public Safety
Department of Public Works
TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH
TOTAL GENERAL FUND
DEBT SERVICE FUNDS

200,000
50,626
50,626
301,252
301,252
16,000,000
———————
16,301,252
———————
———————

TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR 2014

263

The City Record

20

March 5, 2014

GENERAL FUND
EXECUTIVE BRANCH
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Division of Health
II.
Other Expenses

200,000
200,000
———————
200,000
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Division of Animal Control Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

50,626
50,626
———————
50,626
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Division of Property Management
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.

50,626
50,626
———————
50,626
———————
301,252
———————
301,252
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH
TOTAL GENERAL FUND

DEBT SERVICE FUND
Sinking Fund Commission
III.
Debt Service

16,000,000
16,000,000
———————
16,000,000
———————

TOTAL DEBT SERVICE FUND

Ordinance No. 180-14 is herein published following the Public Hearing and before the third reading and final
passage and reflects the necessary amendments required by this schedule.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:42 p.m. to meet on Monday, March
10, 2014, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Others: Matthew Spronz, Director,
Office of Capital Projects.
Natoya
Walker-Minor,
Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
Deborah Midgett, Acting, Division
of Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 96-14.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractors
by
Fabrizi
RecyInc.
under
Contract
No.
cling,
PI2013*047 for the Cleveland Water
Main Replacement Phase 2, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, is approved:
Work
Percentage

Subcontractor

BOARD OF CONTROL
Utilicon Corporation (CSB)
$56,800.00
3.67%

February 26, 2014
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, February 26,
2014 at 10:50 a.m. with Director
Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler, McGrath,
Rush, Southerington, Acting Director Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.

Trafftech, Inc. (CSB)

$ 2,400.00
0.16%

Fabrizi Trucking & Paving Co.
$ 3,500.00
0.23%
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender, Smith, Butler, McGrath, Rush,

264

Southerington,
Directors
Fumich
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Cox and Acting Director
Thornton.
Resolution No. 97-14.
By Director Bender.
Whereas, by Board of Control Resolution
No.
699-13,
adopted
on
December 18. 2013. the City of Cleveland affirmed and approved Huron
Lime, Inc. (“Huron”) as lowest and
best bidder for a requirement contract for an estimated quantity of
quicklime and hydrated lime, for the
Division of Water. Department of
Public Utilities and
Whereas, by its January 6, 2014
letter, Mississippi Lime Company.
Inc. (“Mississippi Lime”) announced
that it had completed its acquisition
of all assets of Huron and planned
to service Huron’s customer contracts and customer agreements,
thereby
substituting
Mississippi
Lime for Huron as the successful
bidder and prospective contractor
for the above-mentioned requirement
contract; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that Board of Control Resolution No.
699-13, adopted December 18, 2013,
affirming
and
approving
Huron
Lime, Inc. as lowest and best bidder
for a requirement contract for quicklime and hydrated lime, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, is amended by changing
the recommended bidder for the con-

March 5, 2014
tract from Huron Lime, Inc. to Mississippi Lime Company. Inc.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Board of Control
Resolution No. 699-13 not expressly
amended
above
shall
remain
unchanged and in full force and
effect.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender, Smith, Butler, McGrath, Rush,
Southerington,
Directors
Fumich
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Cox and Acting Director
Thornton.
Resolution No. 98-14.
By Director Bender.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1039-07, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on August 8,
2007, the City of Cleveland entered
into City Contract No. 67538 with
Datamatic, Ltd. for professional services for maintenance and repair of
meter reading, collections, investigations, and maintenance systems,
including hardware and software
for the Datamatic System, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 738-12, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on June 4,
2012, the City entered into City Contract No. PS2013-011 with Datamatic,
Ltd. for professional services for
software support, maintenance services and licenses for the Datamatic System, hardware, software, and
support and maintenance, including
maintenance and repair of the meter
reading system for one year starting January 1, 2013, for the Division
of Water, Department of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, on or about September
24, 2013. Datamatic, Ltd. transferred
to Communications Leasing Corporation dba Datamatic, Inc. its interests in the Datamatic System and its
rights, interests, and obligations in
several license and maintenance
agreements, including City Contract
No. PS2013-011; and
Whereas, on or about September
26, 2013, Datamatic, Ltd. filed a
Chapter 7 Petition in the United
States Bankruptcy Court for the
Eastern District of Texas, Case No.
13-42337, and since that time, Datamatic, Ltd. is no longer an operating business; and
Whereas, division (c) of Section
181.102 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (“C.O.”) authorizes a director to execute one or
more license agreements for software needed to implement or maintain a previously acquired software
system directly with software licensing firm; and
Whereas, C.O. § 181.102(d) authorizes a director to enter into an
agreement with a software vendor
for professional services necessary
to implement or maintain the software system, including but not limto
maintenance,
repair,
ited
upgrades, enhancements and technical support; and
Whereas, under the authority of
C.O. §181.102, the City intends to
enter into an agreement with Communications
Leasing
Corporation,
dba Datamatic, Inc. for the necessary software licenses and softwarespecific support and maintenance
services for the Datamatic system,
hardware, software. and support and

The City Record
maintenance, including maintenance
and repair of the meter reading system, for a period of one year; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of C.O.
§181.102(e), the compensation to be
paid for license fees and for maintenance and support services to be
performed under the contract with
Communications Leasing Corporation, dba Datamatic, Inc. for a period of one year, shall not exceed
$225,000.00.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender, Smith, Butler, McGrath, Rush,
Southerington,
Directors
Fumich
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Cox and Acting Director
Thornton.
Resolution No. 99-14.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. (CSB/LPE) for the
public
improvement
of
Puritas
Avenue Resurfacing (State Route
237 to West 130th Street), for Items
1-120 for the Division of Engineering & Construction Mayor’s Office of
Capital Projects, received on January 30, 2014, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 674-13, passed on May
20, 2013, upon a unit basis for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of $3,630,317.60, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into contract for the improvement
with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc.
(CSB/LPE) for the aforementioned
public improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Tech Ready Mix, Inc. (CSB)
$ 300,000.00
8.264%
Fabrizi Recycling, Inc. (CSB)
$ 240,000.00
6.611%

21
Cuyahoga Saw (non-certified)
$
30,000.00
N. A.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender, Smith, Butler, McGrath, Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton. Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Cox.
Resolution No. 100-14.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. (CSB/LPE) for the
public
improvement
of
Martin
Luther King Jr. Boulevard Resurfacing
(Buckingham
Avenue
to
Cedar Avenue), for Items 1-143 for
the Division of Engineering & Construction Mayor’s Office of Capital
Projects, received on January 30,
2014, under the authority of Ordinance No. 649-13, passed on May 20,
2013, upon a unit basis for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of $2,750,655.90, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into contract for the improvement
with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc.
(CSB/LPE) for the aforementioned
public improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Fabrizi Recycling, Inc.
(CSB)

Rack Transport LLC
(CSB)

Tech Ready Mix, Inc.
(CSB)

Trafftech, Inc. (CSB)

$330,000.00
11.997%

$200,000.00
7.271%

$145,000.00
5.271%
$ 83,000.00
3.017%

Cuyahoga Supply & Tool
(CSB)
$ 50,000.00
1.818%

Trafftech, Inc. (CSB)
$ 200,000.00
5.509%
Cuyahoga Supply & Tool
(CSB)
$ 180,000.00
4.958%
Down to Earth Landscaping
(CSB)
$
62,000.00
1.708%
RAR Contracting Company,
Inc. (CSB)
$
55,000.00
1.515%
Cook Paving and Construction,
Inc. (CSB)
$
25,000.00
0.689%
Chagrin Valley Paving
(non-certified)
$1,225,000.00
N. A.
Asphalt Fabrics (non-certified)
$ 183,000.00
N. A.

265

Cuyahoga Concrete-Sawing &
Drilling (CSB)
$ 10,000.00
0.364%
Ronyak (non-certified)

Lake Erie Construction
(non-certified)

$625,000.00
N. A.

$ 88,000.00
N. A.

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender, Smith, Butler, McGrath, Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton. Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Cox.
Resolution No. 101-14.
By Directors Cox and Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of R. J. Platten Con-

The City Record

22
tracting (CSB/LPE) for the public
improvement of Municipal Parking
Lot Site Improvements, for Base Bid
Items 1-48 and Alternate Items 1AA
and 2AA including the 5% contingency for the Division of Architecture and Site Development Department of Public Works, received on
January 22, 2014, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1229-13, passed
on November 18, 2013, upon a unit
basis for the improvement in the
aggregate amount of $335,248.99, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Directors of the Department of Public
Works
and
Capital
Projects
is
authorized to enter into contract for
the improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by R.
J. Platten Contracting (CSB/LPE)
aforementioned
public
for
the
improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Signature Control System
(non-certified)

$86,290.00
25.739%

Tech Ready Mix (CSB/MBE)
$19,000.00
5.667%
Ballast Fence (CSB/FBE)
$10,860.00
3.239%
RWJ Wiring, Inc. (CSB)
$10,454.70
3.118%
Ramos Trucking (CSB/MBE)
$10,000.00
2.983%
Cunningham Paving (CSB)
$ 9,002.00
2.685%
Lakewood Supply (CSB)
$ 4,162.23
1.242%
Down to Earth Landscaping
(CSB/FBE)
$ 2,301.00
0.686%
Industrial Surface Sealer,
Inc. (CSB)

$

720.00
0.215%

$

525.00
0.157%

Krusoe Sign (CSB/FBE)

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler, McGrath,
Rush, Southerington, Acting Director Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas.
Resolution No. 102-14.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel

Nos., 006-05-073 and 006-05-074 located on Dudley Avenue in Ward 15;
and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Ohio Conference Association of the Seventh Day Adventist
Church has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcels for
institutional expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcels is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Ohio Conference
Association of the Seventh Day
Adventist Church for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
Nos., 006-05-073 and 006-05-074 located on Dudley Avenue, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcels
shall be $400.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler, McGrath,
Rush, Southerington, Acting Director Thornton. Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas.
Resolution No. 103-14.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No., 106-13-011 located at 7006 Lawnview Avenue in Ward 7; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, New Mount Zion Baptist
Church has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcel for
playground/ open space; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:

266

March 5, 2014
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with New Mount Zion
Baptist Church for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
No., 106-13-011 located at 7006 Lawnview Avenue, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $100.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler, McGrath,
Rush, Southerington, Acting Director Thornton. Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas.
Resolution No. 104-14.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No., 132-20-071 located at 7007 Worley Avenue in Ward 12; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Bobbie Mae Duncan has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 12 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcels is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City

The City Record

March 5, 2014
of Cleveland, with Bobbie Mae Duncan for the sale and development of
Permanent Parcel No., 132-20-071
located at 7007 Worley Avenue,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler, McGrath,
Rush, Southerington, Acting Director Thornton. Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MARCH 17, 2014

23

footage for wall signs allowed is 121
square feet and 226 feet are proposed. (Filed 2-21-2014).
Calendar No. 14-021: 4108 Clinton
Avenue (Ward 3)
Alexandru Brown, owner, appeals
to erect a 14' x 26' one story frame
attached garage addition to an
existing two-family residence located in a B1 Two-Family Residential
District and contrary to Section
355.04 (b) of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances the maximum gross floor
area shall not exceed 50 percent of
the lot area of 1,828 square feet and
2,395 square feet are proposed; and
subject to Section 357.08 (b) (1) the
required rear yard is 24 feet and 10
feet are proposed; and pursuant to
Section 357.09 (2) (A) and (B) no
building shall be erected less than
10 feet from a main building on an
adjoining lot within a Residence
District and 4 feet are proposed and
the minimum required interior side
yard of 3 feet is allowed and 2 feet
are proposed and the total width of
both interior side yards on the same
premises must be 10 feet and 4 feet
are proposed; and subject to the limitations set forth in Section 357.13
(c) (2) the eaves shall not project
more than 2 feet into the interior
side yard and 3 feet are proposed.
(Filed 2-20-2014).
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

appeal

was

DIS-

Calendar No. 14-15: 3936 East 93rd
Street
FPT Cleveland appealed to erect
126 feet of 7 foot high metal fence
on a parcel located in a B2 SemiIndustry District.

The following appeal was POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 13-247: 4414-20 Pearl
Road
Brian Bodach Change from retail
to 3 residential units Postponed to
April 7, 2014 at 9:30 a.m.
The following appeals were heard
by the Board on February 24, 2014;
decisions
were
adopted
and
approved on March 3, 2014;
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
Calendar No. 13-206, 13-207, 13-208, 13209, 13-210 & 13-211: 1819 Abbey
Avenue Parcels A-1 through A-6
Forsgren Properties appealed to
erect 6 townhouse units in a C1
Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 13-252: 12716 Buckeye
Road
Laniece Davis appealed to established use as a restaurant a onestory building on a 75' x 160' corner parcel in a C2-Residence Office
District.

MONDAY, MARCH 3, 2014
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, March
3, 2014, the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

were

Re: Report of the Meeting of
February 26, 2014

Calendar No. 14-11: 3015 Erin Avenue
Benitza Montgomery appealed to
establish a Type “A” Daycare in a
single family home on a 50' x 137'
parcel located in a B1 Two Family
Residential District.

As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:

The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

Calendar No. 13-272 & 13-273: 1962 &
1964 Columbus Road
Kamis
Properties
appealed
to
erect two 2,450 square foot single
family homes in a C3 Semi-Industry
District.
Calendar No. 13-276: 2450 Tremont
Avenue
Alfred
and
Annie
Laudato
appealed to construct a two-story
addition to a single family house
located in a C1 Multi-Family District.

9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 14-022: 5209 Detroit
Avenue (Ward 15)
Westside Ministries, owner, and
The Centers for Families and Children, tenant, appeals to erect six
new wall signs varying in size in
addition to the two existing wall
signs on a two story brick building
located in a C2 Local Retail Business District and a B1 Semi-Industry District and contrary to Section
350.15 of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances the maximum square

The following
MISSED:

The
following
DENIED:

appeals

were

None
The following appeal was WITHDRAWN:
Calendar No. 14-16: 11700 Putnam
Eric
Witherspoon
appealed
to
erect a new building and establish
out door storage and distribution of
scrap material in a B1 Two-Family
District.

267

*    *    *
Docket A-295-13.
RE: Appeal of Northern Ohio
Cleaners C/O James Jallos, Owner
of the M Mercantile – Retail Shops,
Carry-out
Food
Shops
Property,
located on the premises known as
4049 Rocky River Drive from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE,
dated
November 5, 2013 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to uphold the Violation Notice and find that it was
issued properly, to require that all
required permits be obtained and to
grant the Appellant four (4) months
in which to complete abatement of
the violations. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

The City Record

24
Docket A-305-13.
RE: Appeal of Neil T. Clough,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
7012 Colgate Avenue (aka 7014 Colgate
Avenue
(Front)
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — HAZARDOUS
CONDITIONS,
dated
November 26, 2013, of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant two (2) weeks in which
to obtain all required permits and
sixty (60) days in which to complete
abatement of the violations, noting
that failure to meet either date, will
Remand the property immediately;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

to abate the violations, with an evaluation of the property by the inspector as required and requested; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

*    *    *

Docket A-313-13.
RE: Appeal of Rayford Wells/Sam
Sapienza, Owner/Contractor of the
Two Dwelling Units Two-Family
Residence Two & One/half Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 12213 Buckingham Avenue from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION — POOR WORKMANSHIP, dated July 10, 2013 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-313-13 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for March
26, 2014.
*    *    *

Docket A-306-13.
RE: Appeal of Neil T. Clough,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
7014 Colgate Avenue (aka 7012 Colgate Avenue (Rear) from a NOTICE
OF VIOLATION — HAZARDOUS
CONDITIONS, dated November 26,
2013, of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant two (2) weeks in which
to obtain all required permits and
sixty (60) days in which to complete
abatement of the violations, noting
that failure to meet either date, will
Remand the property immediately;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

Docket A-314-13.
RE: Appeal of Bethesda Lutheran
Communities, Owner of Property,
located on the premises known as
3951 Rocky River Drive from an
ADJUDICATION
ORDER,
dated
November 27, 2013 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance and permit the elevator to be
installed and used as proposed, noting that there will be a knowledgeable person in attendance to lock
and unlock the door, that there will
be a telephone available through the
security system to an attendant
24/7; and that the elevator must be
registered and be subjected to annual inspections by the proper authorities. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

Docket A-312-13.
RE: Appeal of Tracy C. Bober,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
One
&
One/half Story Masonry Property,
located on the premises known as
12807 Triskett Road from a NOTICE
OF
VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated November 26,
2013 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant six (6) months in which

present tenant until the violations
have been abated; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

*    *    *

*    *    *

*    *    *

March 5, 2014

*    *    *
Docket A-3-14.
RE:
Appeal
of
Patricia
Hall,
Owner of the Three Dwelling Units
Three-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
6823 Bayliss Avenue from a NOTICE
OF VIOLATION — HAZARDOUS
CONDITIONS, dated December 24,
2013 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant six (6) months in which
to complete abatement of the violation, and that the property is not to
be re-rented after the eviction of the

268

Docket A-4-14.
RE: Appeal of Elena Martinez,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 11101 Fidelity
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated December 12, 2013 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant six (6) months in which
to complete abatement of the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-5-14.
RE: Appeal of John & Lynn
Branch, Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence Two
& One/half Story Frame Property,
located on the premises known as
4145 East 98th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated December 23,
2013 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant three (3) months in which
to complete abatement of the violations by either rehabilitating the
property or demolishing the property. The property is REMANDED at
this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for superviand
any
required
further
sion
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-6-14.
RE: Appeal of Timothy I. Zupancic, Owner of the One Dwelling Unit
Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 3899 West 34th
Street
from
a
CONDEMNATION
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
ORDER
dated December 18, 2013 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compli-

The City Record

March 5, 2014
ance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that based
upon testimony presented by City
officials and the interested public,
that the property be maintained
vacant, that no additional time be
given to the Appellant and to
REMAND the property at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-7-14.
RE: Appeal of HHIG Ohio Properties, Owner of the R-2 Residential –
Non-transient; Apartments (Shared
Egress)
Three
Story
Masonry
Walls/Wood Floors Property, located on the premises known as 1373
West 80th Street from a CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE, dated November 11, 2013 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that based
on photographic evidence, testimony
presented to the Board indicating
the advance deterioration of the
property, that the property is not
habitable and must remain vacant,
and that the Appellant is not present for the hearing, the request for
additional time is DENIED; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action.
Motion so in order. Motioned by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-8-14.
RE: Appeal of Linda M. Matthews,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 3440 West 132nd
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated December 17, 2013 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to clean the property and remove all
debris, and six (6) months in which
to complete abatement of all violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

25

Docket A-9-14.
RE: Appeal of Tom Gillespie,
Owner, Tyler Lombardo, Contractor,
Owner/Contractor of the Property,
located on the premises known as
1261 West 76th Street from an ADJUDICATION ORDER, dated December
23, 2013 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to require that the
columns and the header beams of
the partition structure to achieve a
one hour rating and that any further development of the property
must be preceded by plans and a
permit; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

Docket A-12-14.
RE: Appeal of Marlene Bowles,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 12204 Oakfield
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated December 23, 2013, the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to obtain all required permits and
six (6) months in which to complete
abatement of the violations, noting
that failure to meet either date will
Remand the property immediately;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

*    *    *

Docket A-13-14.
RE: Appeal of Sajjaad Shakir,
Theresa Robinson Conner, Purchaser and Owner of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence Two
Story Frame Property, located on
the premises known as 8018 Platt
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
INTERIOR/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated January 24,
2014, and from a VACATE ORDER,
dated January 31, 2014 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Violation
Notice
was
properly
issued, and the appeal for additional time is DENIED, the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

Docket A-10-14.
RE: Appeal of Classco Realty Corporation, Owner of the R-2 Residential
–
Non-transient;
Apartments
(Shared Egress) Four Story Masonry Walls/Wood Floors Property,
located on the premises known as
1832
East
90th
Street
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE,
dated December 26, 2013 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
request for additional time and to
REMAND
the
property
to
the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action, based upon testimony and photographic evidence indicating safety as well as maintenance problems that must have permits to be a safe structure; the property is REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Maschke and
seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-11-14.
RE: Appeal of Shakertown Apt.,
Ltd., Owner of the R-2 Residential –
Non-transient; Apartments (Shared
Egress)
Four
Story
Masonry
Walls/Wood Floors Property, located on the premises known as 2804
S.
Moreland
Boulevard
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — FIRE
DAMAGE, dated December 23, 2013
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-11-14 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for March
26, 2014.

269

*    *    *

*    *    *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher for Approval and Adoption of the Resolutions as presented
by the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-284-13 — Melvin W. LaPrade
A-292-13 — William Stefaniuk
A-302-13 — Jason Perez
A-303-13 — Lewis Lukanc
A-307-13 — Theodore J. Mihalke
A-308-13 — Theodore J. Mihalke
A-309-13 — James L. Hronek Jr.
A-311-13 — Carlos L. Diaz
A-1-14 — Cabrera Enterprises, Ltd.
A-14-14 — Flats East Bank Residential, LLC
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Not Voting: Mr. Maschke.

The City Record

26
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Minutes as presented by the
Secretary, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
January 29, 2014
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Not Voting: Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY of CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made

on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 2014
File No. 21-14 — City of Cleveland
Fleet Avenue Rehabilitation Project;
Independence
Road
to
Broadway Avenue, for the Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 608-12, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 4, 2012.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT
OF
SEVENTY-FIVE
DOLLARS ($75.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2014
AT 10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, ROOM 518, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
February 19, 2014 and February 26, 2014
and March 5, 2014
FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 2014

March 5, 2014
THURSDAY, MARCH 20, 2014
File No. 29-14 — Labor and Materials Necessary to Maintain and
Replace
Exterior
Plants
and
Other Site Landscaping for the
Various Divisions of Port Control,
for the Division of Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport,
Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Section 181.101 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 2014 AT 10:00
A.M. THE CLEVELAND HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S CENTRAL RECEIVING
BUILDING, 19451 FIVE POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44135-3193.
February 26, 2014 and March 5, 2014
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 26, 2014
File No. 26-14 — Year 2014 - Harvard
Yard Facility Improvements (Rebid), for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized
by
Ordinance
No.
1542-09, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, December
7, 2009.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($100.00)
ONLY IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MARCH 6, 2014 AT
2:30 P.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
UTILITIES
BUILDING,
2ND
ATRIUM CONFERENCE ROOM,
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.

File No. 27-14 — Rehabilitating and
Relining Sewers at Various Locations, for the Division of Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 996-03, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, July 16, 2003.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
ONLY IN THE FORM
($50.00)
OF A CASHIER’S CHECK OR A
MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 2014 AT 11:00
A.M. THE DIVISION OF WATER
POLLUTION
CONTROL,
12302
KIRBY AVENUE, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44108.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.

File No. 28-14 — Labor and Materials needed to Maintain, Test,
Install, Replace, Improve, Restore
and Refurbish Landscaping at
Various Locations, for the Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 863-13, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, August 14, 2013.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MARCH 6, 2014 AT
10:00 A.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
2ND FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE ROOM, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.

February 26, 2014 and March 5, 2014

February 26, 2014 and March 5, 2014

270

March 5, 2014
THURSDAY, MARCH 27, 2014
File No. 32-14 — Processing of Recyclable Materials, for the Division
of Waste Collection, Department
of Public Works, as authorized
by Section 181.18 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19, 2014
AT 10:00 A.M. THE DIVISION OF
WASTE
COLLECTION,
5600
CARNEGIE, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44103.
March 5, 2014 and March 12, 2014
FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 2014
File No. 30-14 — Demolition of City
Facilities
Package
D
Platt
Avenue Park Station (Re-bid), for
the Division of Architecture and
Site Development, Department of
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 747-13, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, July 10,
2013.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF TWENTY FIVE
DOLLARS ($25.00)
ONLY IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MARCH 13, 2014 AT
3:00
P.M.
CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL, ROOM 517A, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
File No. 31-14 — West Side Market
Phase 4A Refrigeration System
Upgrades (Re-bid), for the Division of Architecture and Site
Department
of
Development,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 747-13, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, July 10,
2013.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF TWENTY FIVE
DOLLARS ($25.00)
ONLY IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MARCH 13, 2014 AT
2:00
P.M.
CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL, ROOM 517A, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.

The City Record
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
March 5, 2014 and March 12, 2014

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 277-14.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution supporting the application of the James D.
Denkins Trustee of the Revocable
Trust to the Ohio Historic Preservation Office for State Historic Tax
Credits for the Lion Knitting Mills
Building at 3256 West 25th Street.
Whereas, each year the State of
Ohio through the Ohio Historic
Preservation Office allocates State
Historic Tax Credits for historic redevelopment projects throughout Ohio
using a competitive proposal process;
and
Whereas, the Cleveland City Council recognizes the need to maintain
historic buildings in Cleveland’s
neighborhoods; and
Whereas, the James D. Denkins
Trustee of the Revocable Trust proposes an adaptive reuse of the former
Lion Knitting Mills Building into 36
units of affordable rental housing;
and
Whereas, the former Lion Knitting
Mills Building is currently in the
process of being listed on the National Register of Historic Places; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
supports the James D. Denkins
Trustee of the Revocable Trust’s proposal for the Lion Knitting Mills
Building at 3256 West 25th Street as a
high priority initiative for future
development in the community for the
benefit the citizens of the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the application of the James D.
Denkins Trustee of the Revocable
Trust to the Ohio Historic Preservation Office for State Historic Tax
Credits for the Lion Knitting Mills
Building at 3256 West 25th Street.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit two
copies of this resolution to Mat Lasko,
Assistant Director, of Detroit Shoreway Community Development Corporation.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted February 24, 2014.
Effective March 4, 2014.

271

27
Res. No. 278-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution supporting the application of Detroit Shoreway Community Development Corporation to the Ohio Development Services Agency for State Historic Tax
Credits for the Near West Lofts Storefront located at 6710 Detroit Avenue.
Whereas, each year the State of
Ohio through the Ohio Development
Services Agency allocates State Historic Tax Credits for historic redevelopment projects throughout Ohio
using a competitive proposal process;
and
Whereas, the Cleveland City Council has recognized the need to maintain historic buildings in Cleveland’s
neighborhoods; and
Whereas, Detroit Shoreway Community Development Corporation are
proposing
interior
and
façade
improvements to the ground floor
storefront space of the Near West
Lofts Storefront located at 6710
Detroit Avenue to create attractive
space for a commercial or retail tenant; and
Whereas, the building is located
within the heart of the national
renowned Gordon Square Arts District and immediately adjacent to the
new and under construction Near
West Theatre complex; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
supports the Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization’s
proposal for the Near West Lofts
Storefront as a high priority initiative
for future development in the community for the benefit the citizens of the
City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the application of Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization to the Ohio Development Services Agency for State Historic Tax
Credits for the Near West Lofts Storefront located at 6710 Detroit Avenue.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution to Jeff
Ramsey, Executive Director, and
Matt Lasko, Assistant Director of
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Corporation.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted February 24, 2014.
Effective March 4, 2014.

Res. No. 279-14.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution supporting the application of the Friends of
the Historic Variety Theatre, Inc. to
the Ohio Historic Preservation Office
for State Historic Tax Credits for the
Variety Theatre Building located at
11815 Lorain Avenue.
Whereas, each year the State of
Ohio through the Ohio Historic

28
Preservation Office allocates State
Historic Tax Credits for historic redevelopment projects throughout Ohio
using a competitive proposal process;
and
Whereas, the Cleveland City Council recognizes the need to maintain
historic buildings in Cleveland’s
neighborhoods; and
Whereas, the Friends of the Historic Variety Theatre, Inc., propose a
substantial rehabilitation and adaptive reuse of the former Variety Theatre Building into ground-floor commercial and retail space, second floor
apartments as well as a repurposing
of the former theatre space into a
smaller entertainment venue; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
supports the Friends of the Historic
Variety Theatre, Inc.’s proposal for
the Variety Theatre Building located
at 11815 Lorain Avenue as a high priority initiative for future development in the community for the benefit
the citizens of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the application of the Friends of
the Historic Variety Theatre, Inc. to
the Ohio Historic Preservation Office
for State Historic Tax Credits for the
Variety Theatre Building located at
11815 Lorain Avenue.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit two
copies of this resolution to Matt
Lasko, Assistant Director, of Detroit
Shoreway Community Development
Corporation.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted February 24, 2014.
Effective March 4, 2014.

Res. No. 281-14.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution supporting Mayor Frank Jackson and the
City of Cleveland’s bids to host the
2016 Democratic National Convention
and the 2016 Republican National
Convention; and supporting the civic
collaboration and efforts of Cleveland
with Cuyahoga County, the State of
Ohio, the Cleveland 2016 Host Committee, Inc., the Greater Cleveland
Partnership, Positively Cleveland,
the Downtown Cleveland Alliance,
Quicken Loans Arena, the Greater
Cleveland Regional Transit Authority, Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency, the Cleveland Convention Center and Global Medical
Mart and other civic and community
leaders and pledging City resources
on behalf of hosting of a National
Presidential Nominating Convention
in Cleveland in 2016.
Whereas, the Republican National
Committee and Democratic National
Committee have invited select U.S.
cities, including the City of Cleve-

The City Record
land, to respond to a formal request
for proposal to host the Presidential
Nominating National Convention in
2016; and
Whereas, efforts are now underway
to submit competitive bids to host the
conventions from the City of Cleveland in coordination with Cuyahoga
County, the County Executive, and
the State of Ohio and working in close
partnership with a coalition of local
non-profit and civic leaders, including
the Greater Cleveland Partnership,
Positively Cleveland, the Downtown
Cleveland Alliance, Quicken Loans
Arena, the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority, Northeast Ohio
Areawide Coordinating Agency, and
the Cleveland Convention Center and
Global Medical Mart; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council is
excited to join Mayor Jackson and our
civic, business and non-profit leaders,
as well as the Cleveland 2016 Host
Committee, Inc., in providing a seamless Presidential Nominating National Convention in 2016; and
Whereas, Cleveland is the optimal
location to host a National Convention and can demonstrate the ability
to raise the dollars and other
resources necessary to put on a successful convention; has the right location and venue that will accommodate
all aspects of a National Convention
in a manner that is logistically, comfortably and seamlessly easy to
access for all convention delegates,
attendees, media, and convention
staff; and has more than enough
hotels located in close proximity to a
National Convention for the convenience of delegates and all attendees;
and
Whereas, efforts to attract a National Convention to our region are uniting City, County, and state officials,
and leaders in our business and cultural communities, paving the way
for future partnerships and regional
collaborations benefiting our city and
the surrounding region; and
Whereas, a successful bid for a
National Convention would feature
the City of Cleveland as a major convention and tourist destination; and
Whereas, a historic national convention would have a positive economic impact, benefiting significantly our municipal and regional economy; and
Whereas, it is estimated that a
National Convention would attract
35,000 visitors to Northeast Ohio, create new jobs, and have a $150,000,000
to $200,000,000 net positive economic
impact on our region; and
Whereas, travel and tourism rank
among this Region’s largest industries and the positive impact of hosting a National Convention in the City
would be significant for our entire
community; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, property, health or
safety in that submitting a timely
competitive bid to host a National
Convention creates an opportunity to
achieve economic gains and to place
the entire metropolitan region in the
national spotlight for years to come;
now, therefore
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Cleveland City
Council hereby expresses full support
of the efforts of Mayor Jackson and
the City of Cleveland to submit a winning bid to host a National Convention in Cleveland in 2016.

272

March 5, 2014
Section 2. That Cleveland City
Council hereby further expresses its
full support of the partnership and
collaborative efforts of the City of
Cleveland with Cuyahoga County and
the County Executive, the State of
Ohio, the Cleveland 2016 Host Committee, Inc., the Greater Cleveland
Partnership, Positively Cleveland,
the Downtown Cleveland Alliance,
Quicken Loans Arena, the Greater
Cleveland Regional Transit Authority, Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency, the Cleveland Convention Center and Global Medical
Mart and numerous other civic, business and community leaders working
tirelessly in support of Cleveland’s
bid to host a National Presidential
Nominating Convention in Cleveland
in 2016.
Section 3. That Cleveland City
Council joins the Mayor in pledging
all the available resources of the City,
including the City’s facilities and
safety, security and logistical personnel and services, on behalf of City’s
bid to designate the City of Cleveland
as Host City for a National Presidential Nominating Convention.
Section 4. That, in demonstration of
our full support of this effort, the
members of Cleveland City Council
are honored to serve as Honorary CoChairs of the National Convention
Host Committee.
Section 5. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Adopted February 24, 2014.
Effective March 4, 2014.

Res. No. 282-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Kelley, Brady, Cimperman, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J.
Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Mitchell,
Polensek, Pruitt, Reed, Sweeney and
Zone.
An emergency resolution supporting Federal Senate Bill 394, the Metal
Theft Prevention Act of 2013.
Whereas, with the price of metal
increasing, metal theft in the United
States has jumped by 80%, costing
U.S. businesses $1 billion dollars a
year; and
Whereas, the state of Ohio is number one in the nation in metal theft,
with 3,200 reported claims between
2010 and 2012; and
Whereas, in Cleveland, between
2000 and 2008, 80,000 homes have been
foreclosed upon, causing property
values to plummet and leading to
entire blocks of vacant and abandoned houses that are quickly
stripped of all aluminum siding,
metal appliances, copper wire and
plumbing; and
Whereas, S. 394, the Metal Theft
Prevention Act of 2013, is bipartisan
federal legislation that would make
metal theft a federal crime, give state
attorneys general the power to bring
civil actions to enforce the bill’s provisions, open metal theft to potentially tougher sentences and make it significantly more difficult for criminals
to sell stolen metal to scrap metal
dealers; and

March 5, 2014
Whereas, the Metal Theft Prevention Act of 2013 will significantly
assist in improving prevention of
metal theft from critical infrastructure as well as crack down on criminals who commit this crime; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
supports Federal Senate Bill 394, the
Metal Theft Prevention Act of 2013.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit copies
of this resolution to U.S. Senators
Sherrod Brown and Rob Portman.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted February 24, 2014.
Effective March 4, 2014.

Res. No. 283-14.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit to 3935 West 130th
Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from
ZKS 130 Inc., 3935 West 130th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
Number 98714520010 to MFY Gas, Inc.,
3935 West 130th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44111,
Permanent
Number
6273848; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.

The City Record
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from
ZKS 130 Inc., 3935 West 130th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
Number 98714520010 to MFY Gas, Inc.,
3935 West 130th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44111,
Permanent
Number
6273848; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted February 24, 2014.
Effective March 4, 2014.

Res. No. 284-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to
3232 Lakeside Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit from Flextron, LLC,
DBA Gotcha Inn, 3232 Lakeside
Avenue and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
2779680 to 1515 LLC, DBA Bar 216, 3232
Lakeside Avenue and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
Number 2714242; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and

273

29
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit from Flextron, LLC,
DBA Gotcha Inn, 3232 Lakeside
Avenue and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
2779680 to 1515 LLC, DBA Bar 216, 3232
Lakeside Avenue and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
Number 2714242; and requests the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted February 24, 2014.
Effective March 4, 2014.

Res. No. 285-14.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Zone, Brady, Polensek, Brancatelli
and Cummins.
An emergency resolution in support
of and solidarity with the people in
Ukraine who continue to demonstrate
in favor of their sovereign right to
chart an independent and democratic
future for their country.
Whereas,
the
government
of
Ukraine made significant progress
toward meeting the requirements and
signing an Association Agreement
and Free Trade Agreement with the
European Union; and
Whereas, in November 2013, Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych
suspended preparations for signing
the Association Agreement and a
Free Trade Agreement with the European Union following several months
of pressure from the Russian Federation; and
Whereas, this reversal of policy
triggered peaceful demonstrations by
millions of Ukrainians in Kyiv and
cities throughout the country and the
world,
including
Cleveland,
to
demand closer European integration;
and
Whereas, in response to these
peaceful protests, Ukrainian authorities have resorted to cruel brutality,
repression, censorship and violence;
and
Whereas, clashes between police
and protesters have resulted in scores

30
of confirmed deaths and thousands of
injuries including targeted attacks
on members of the media and medical
personnel; and
Whereas, two days ago, Ukrainian
President Yanukovych fled the country and a warrant is out for his arrest
for “mass killings of civilians”; and
Whereas, Cleveland is the home of
tens of thousands of people of Ukrainian descent who continue to support a
constructive and peaceful solution to
the crisis; and
Whereas, this Council supports
Ukrainians' aspirations for democracy, national sovereignty and association with Europe, in accordance with
their universal right to choose their
own future, free of fear, intimidation
and outside interference; and
Whereas, the United States government must continue to support the
desire of millions of Ukrainian citizens for democracy and human rights
with any all appropriate measures,
including targeted sanctions against
those who authorize or engage in the
use of force against protesters, targeted financial assistance for peopleto-people
cooperation
between
Ukraine and the United States, including Cleveland-based institutions, and
to use every appropriate international organization and agreement--e.g.
International Monetary Fund, the
United Nations, World Trade Organization, Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe--to defend
Ukrainians' right to democracy and
national sovereignty; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
supports and is in solidarity with the
people in Ukraine who continue to
demonstrate in favor of their sovereign right to chart an independent
and democratic future for their country.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit a copy
of this resolution to United Ukrainian
Organizations of Ohio.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted February 24, 2014.
Effective March 4, 2014.

Ord. No. 200-14.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Jefferson Avenue, S.W.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
838-13, adopted August 14, 2013, this
Council declared its intention to
vacate
a
portion
of
Jefferson
Avenue; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on
the abutting property owners affected by the resolution which stated a
time and place when objections
would be heard before the Board of
Revision of Assessments; and

The City Record
Whereas, on January 14, 2014, the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of the above and that
it will not be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be
made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and being part of original Brooklyn
Township Lot number 87 and original
100 Acre Lots numbers 268 and 269.
Being all that portion of Jefferson
Avenue S.W. (60.00 feet wide) extending from the west right of way of
Rockefeller Avenue (66.00 feet wide)
westerly to the east dock line of the
Cuyahoga River established by City
of Cleveland ordinance # 63410-A
passed October 01, 1924.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved to
the City of Cleveland an easement of
full width as described above for the
Illuminating Company (CEI) and an
easement of full width as described
above for ingress/egress to all abutting parcels, including the most
northeasterly portion, for Ava Land
Corporation.
That no structures shall be erected
on the premises described in this easement except those constructed under
the approval of, and in compliance
with, plans approved by the Illuminating Company (CEI) and the City
of Cleveland.
Section
3.
That
provided
all
required
approvals
have
been
obtained, the Manager of Engineering and Construction is directed to
record the vacation plat in the office
of the Recorder of Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit a copy of this
ordinance to the Fiscal Officer of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed February 24, 2014.
Effective March 4, 2014.

Ord. No. 274-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Hermes 10 Miler, on
April 26, 2014, sponsored by the Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

274

March 5, 2014
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the Hermes 10 Miler, sponsored by the
Hermes Sports & Events, Inc., on
April 26, 2014, start: Run/Walk Route:
Edgewater Park, exit park west up
bike path to West Blvd., West Blvd.
south to Lake, Lake west to West
117th then into the City of Lakewood,
returning from Lakewood, Lake east
to Detroit, Detroit east to West 67th,
West 67th north to Father Caruso Dr.,
Father Caruso east to Tunnel to Edgewater park and finish; Road Usage:
Only the westbound lanes will be used
on Lake Avenue from West 117th to
Detroit going out and coming back
from Lakewood; all residents on Lake
Ave, West 76th, Father Caruso Dr.,
will be notified and assisted to enter
or exit as needed; provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary in
order to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and all
liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed February 24, 2014.
Effective March 4, 2014.

Ord. No. 275-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Max Hayes School Run,
on April 6, 2014, sponsored by the Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the Max Hayes School Run, sponsored
by the Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.,
on April 6, 2014, start: Max Hayes
High School, West 45th south to
Franklin, Franklin west to West
52nd, West 52nd south to Lorain,
Lorain west to West 53rd, West 53rd
south to West 55th, West 55th south to
Clark, turn around and return same
route to finish line at Max Hayes
School, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety

The City Record

March 5, 2014
forces as may be necessary in order to
protect the participants in the event.
Said permit shall further provide that
the City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability
resulting from the issuance of the
same, to the extent and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed February 24, 2014.
Effective March 4, 2014.

Ord. No. 276-14.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the United Cerebral Palsy
of Greater Cleveland Run, on May 4,
2014, sponsored by the Hermes Sports
& Events, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the United Cerebral Palsy of Greater
Cleveland Run, sponsored by the Hermes Sports & Events, Inc., on May 4,
2014, start: UCP office 10011 Euclid,
Euclid east to East 105th, East 105th
north to MLK, MLK north to Superior
ramp turn around, return same route
back to UCP office, finish line at rear
of UCP offices in parking lot off East
100th St., provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order to
protect the participants in the event.
Said permit shall further provide that
the City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability
resulting from the issuance of the
same, to the extent and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed February 24, 2014.
Effective March 4, 2014.

31
COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, March 3, 2014
2:00 p.m.
Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee & Finance
Committee: Present in DP&S: Brancatelli, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair;
Cummins, Pruitt, Zone. Authorized
Absence:
Dow.
Unauthorized
Absence: Cimperman. Present in
Finance: Kelley, Chair; Cleveland,
Vice Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane,
Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
Tuesday, March 4, 2014
9:30 a.m.
Development, Planning & Sustainability Committee: CANCELLED.
Wednesday, March 5, 2014
10:00 a.m.
Safety Committee: Present: Zone,
Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair; Dow,
Keane,
Polensek.
Authorized
Absence: Cimperman, K. Johnson.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

9-1-1 Service
Transfer the responsibility of answering cellular 9-1-1 calls made within the City
of Cleveland from the County to the City (O 298-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248

Agreements
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1533-13 — Hunger Center Program — University Settlement, Inc. —
Community Development (Ward (s) 05, 12 NCF) (O 311-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Applied Industrial Technologies — release debt reserve — Economic Development Department
(O 304-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
County’s Sheriff’s Department take over booking, housing and other related services for
City Prisoners (O 299-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Slavic Village Broadway Gateway Project “Cycle of Arches” — Slavic Village Development —
City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 12, 05 CF) (O 310-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transfer the responsibility of answering cellular 9-1-1 calls made within the City
of Cleveland from the County to the City (O 298-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Hospitals Health System to establish a Police Agency (O 300-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 255
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 250
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248

Appropriations
Appropriations — Year 2014 — current expenses and other expenses — Finance
Department (O 180-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256-257

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Bayliss Avenue, 6823, (Ward 7) — Patricia Hall, owner — appeal resolved on 2/26/14
(Doc. A-3-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
Brooklyn Avenue, 4606, (Ward 13) — Lewis Lukanc, owner — appeal adopted on 2/26/14
(Doc. A-303-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
Buckingham Avenue, 12213, (Ward 6) — Rayford Wells/Sam Sapienza, owner/contractor —
appeal postponed to 3/26/14 on 2/26/14 (Doc. A-313-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268

275

The City Record

32

Colgate Avenue, 7012, a.k.a. 7012 Colgate Avenue (Rear), (Ward 15) — Neil T. Clough,
owner — appeal resolved on 2/26/14 (Doc. A-306-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Colgate Avenue, 7014, a.k.a. 7014 Colgate Avenue (Front), (Ward 15) — Neil T.
Clough, owner — appeal resolved on 2/26/14 (Doc. A-305-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 106th Street, 1504, (Ward 9) — Melvin W. LaPrade, owner — appeal adopted on 2/26/14
(Doc. A-284-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 90th Street, 1832, (Ward 7) — Classco Realty Corporation, owner — appeal resolved
on 2/26/14 (Doc. A-10-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 98th Street, 4145, (Ward 2) — John & Lynn Branch, owner — appeal resolved on 2/26/14
(Doc. A-5-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fidelity Avenue, 11101, (Ward 11) — Elena Martinez, owner — appeal resolved on 2/26/14
(Doc. A-4-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Leopold Avenue, 3804, (Ward 13) — William Stefaniuk, owner — appeal adopted on 2/26/14
(Doc. A-292-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oakfield Avenue, 12204, (Ward 4) — Marlene Bowles, owner — appeal resolved on
2/26/14 (Doc. A-12-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old River Road, 1055, (Ward 3) — Flats East Bank Residential, LLC, owner — appeal adopted
on 2/26/14 (Doc. A-14-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Platt Avenue, 8018, (Ward 6) — Sajjaad Shakir, purchaser, and Theresa Robinson Conner,
owner — appeal resolved on 2/26/14 (Doc. A-13-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Drive, 3951, (Ward 17) — Bethesda Lutheran Communities, owner — appeal
resolved on 2/26/14 (Doc. A-314-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Drive, 4049, (Ward 17) — Northern Ohio Cleaners c/o James Jallos, owner —
appeal resolved on 2/26/14 (Doc. A-295-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
S. Moreland Boulevard, 2804, (Ward 6) — Shakertown Apt., Ltd., owner — appeal postponed
to 3/26/14 on 2/26/14 (Doc. A-11-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Triskett Road, 12807, (Ward 16) — Tracy C. Bober, owner — appeal resolved on 2/26/14
(Doc. A-312-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tuckahoe Avenue, 14218, (Ward 17) — James L. Hronek, Jr., owner — appeal adopted on
2/26/14 (Doc. A-309-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 127th Street, 3348, (Ward 16) — Carlos L. Diaz, owner — appeal adopted on 2/26/14
(Doc. A-311-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 132nd Street, 3440, (Ward 16) — Linda M. Matthews, owner — appeal resolved on
2/26/14 (Doc. A-8-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 139th Street, 3162, (Ward 16) — Jason Perez, owner — appeal adopted on 2/26/14
(Doc. A-302-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 34th Street, 3899, (Ward 12) — Timothy I. Zupancic, owner — appeal resolved on
2/26/14 (Doc. A-6-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 47th Street, 2144, (Ward 3) — Theodore J. Mihalke, owner — appeal adopted on 2/26/14
(Doc. A-307-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 47th Street, 2146, (Ward 3) — Theodore J. Mihalke, owner — appeal adopted on 2/26/14
(Doc. A-308-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 59th Place, 3350, (Ward 3) — Cabrera Enterprises, Ltd., owner — appeal adopted on
2/26/14 (Doc. A-1-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 76th Street, 1261, (Ward 15) — Tom Gillespie, owner, and Tyler Lombardo, contractor —
appeal resolved on 2/26/14 (Doc. A-9-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 80th Street, 1373, (Ward 15) — HHIG Ohio Properties, owner — appeal resolved
on 2/26/14 (Doc. A-7-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

March 5, 2014
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269

Board of Control — Architecture and Site Development Division
Municipal Parking Lot site improvements — per Ord. 1229-13 to R.J. Platten Contracting —
Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 101-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265

Board of Control — Capital Projects Office
Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard resurfacing (Buckingham Ave. to Cedar Ave.) — per Ord.
649-13 to Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. — Division of Engineering and
Construction (BOC Res. 100-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265
Puritas Avenue resurfacing (SR. 237 to West 130th Street) — per Ord. 674-13 to
Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. — Division of Engineering and Construction
(BOC Res. 99-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Dudley Avenue (Ward 15) — PPN 006-05-073/074 — Ohio Conference Association of the Seventh
Day Adventist Church (BOC Res. 102-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266
Lawnview Avenue, 7006 (Ward 7) — PPN 106-13-011 — New Mount Zion Baptist Church
(BOC Res. 103-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266
Worley Avenue, 7007 (Ward 12) — PPN 132-20-071 — Bobbie Mae Duncan (BOC Res. 104-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266

Board of Control — Engineering and Construction Division
Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard resurfacing (Buckingham Ave. to Cedar Ave.) — per Ord.
649-13 to Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 100-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265
Puritas Avenue resurfacing (SR. 237 to West 130th Street) — per Ord. 674-13 to
Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 99-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265

276

March 5, 2014

The City Record

33

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Dudley Avenue (Ward 15) — PPN 006-05-073/074 — Ohio Conference Association of the
Seventh Day Adventist Church (BOC Res. 102-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266
Lawnview Avenue, 7006 (Ward 7) — PPN 106-13-011 — New Mount Zion Baptist Church
(BOC Res. 103-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266
Worley Avenue, 7007 (Ward 12) — PPN 132-20-071 — Bobbie Mae Duncan (BOC Res. 104-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Meter reading, collections, investigations and maintenance systems — Contract #67538 per
C.O. Sec. 181.102 — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 98-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard resurfacing (Buckingham Ave. to Cedar Ave.) — per Ord.
649-13 to Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. — Division of Engineering and
Construction, Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 100-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Municipal Parking Lot site improvements — per Ord. 1229-13 to R.J. Platten Contracting —
Division of Architecture and Site Development, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 101-14) .
Puritas Avenue resurfacing (SR. 237 to West 130th Street) — per Ord. 674-13 to
Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. — Division of Engineering and Construction,
Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 99-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water Main Replacement, Phase II — approve subcontractors — Contract
#PI2013*047 per BOC Res. 237-13 — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 96-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Meter reading, collections, investigations and maintenance systems — Contract #67538 per
C.O. Sec. 181.102 — Division of Water (BOC Res. 98-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264
Quicklime and hydrated lime — amend BOC Res. 699-13 — change to Mississippi Lime
Company, Inc. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 97-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264
Water Main Replacement, Phase II — approve subcontractors — Contract
#PI2013*047 per BOC Res. 237-13 — Division of Water (BOC Res. 96-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Municipal Parking Lot site improvements — per Ord. 1229-13 to R.J. Platten Contracting —
Division of Architecture and Site Development (BOC Res. 101-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Quicklime and hydrated lime — amend BOC Res. 699-13 — change to Mississippi Lime
Company, Inc. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 97-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264

Board of Control — Water Division
Meter reading, collections, investigations and maintenance systems — Contract #67538 per
C.O. Sec. 181.102 — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 98-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265
Quicklime and hydrated lime — amend BOC Res. 699-13 — change to Mississippi Lime
Company, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 97-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264
Water Main Replacement, Phase II — approve subcontractors — Contract
#PI2013*047 per BOC Res. 237-13 — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 96-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264

Board Of Elections
Charter Amendment to ballot regarding digital legislation — Amend Section 33 (O 280-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Abbey Avenue, 1819, Parcel A-1, (Ward 3) — Forsgren Properties, Incorporated, owner —
appeal dismissed 3/3/14 (Cal. 13-206) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Abbey Avenue, 1819, Parcel A-2, (Ward 3) — Forsgren Properties, Incorporated, owner —
appeal dismissed 3/3/14 (Cal. 13-207) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Abbey Avenue, 1819, Parcel A-3, (Ward 3) — Forsgren Properties, Incorporated, owner —
appeal dismissed 3/3/14 (Cal. 13-208) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Abbey Avenue, 1819, Parcel A-4, (Ward 3) — Forsgren Properties, Incorporated, owner —
appeal dismissed 3/3/14 (Cal. 13-209) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Abbey Avenue, 1819, Parcel A-5, (Ward 3) — Forsgren Properties, Incorporated, owner —
appeal dismissed 3/3/14 (Cal. 13-210) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Abbey Avenue, 1819, Parcel A-6, (Ward 3) — Forsgren Properties, Incorporated, owner —
appeal dismissed 3/3/14 (Cal. 13-211) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buckeye Road, 12716, (Ward 4) — Laniece Davis, owner — appeal dismissed 3/3/14 (Cal. 13-252) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Columbus Road, 1962, (Ward 3) — Kamis Properties LLC, owner — appeal heard on 3/3/14
(Cal. 13-272) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

277

. . 267
. . 267
. . 267
. . 267
. . 267
. . 267
. . 267
. . 267

The City Record

34

March 5, 2014

Columbus Road, 1964, (Ward 3) — Kamis Properties LLC, owner — appeal heard on 3/3/14
(Cal. 13-273) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd Street, 3936, (Ward 2) — FPT Cleveland, owner — appeal dismissed on 3/3/14
(Cal. 14-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Erin Avenue, 3015, (Ward 14) — Benitza Montgomery, owner — appeal heard on 3/3/14
(Cal. 14-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pearl Road, 4414-20, (Ward 13) — Brian Bodach, owner — appeal postponed to 4/07/14
on 3/3/14 (Cal. 13-247) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Putnam, 11700, (Ward 2) — Eric Witherspoon, owner — appeal withdrawn on 3/3/14 (Cal. 14-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tremont Avenue, 2450, (Ward 3) — Alfred and Annie Laudato, owners — appeal heard on
3/3/14 (Cal. 13-276). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . 267
. . 267
. . 267
. . 267
. . 267
. . 267

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Clifton Avenue, 4108, (Ward 3) — Alexandru Brown, owner — appeal to be heard on 3/17/14
(Cal. 14-021) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267
Detroit Avenue, 5209, (Ward 15) — Westside Ministries, owner, and The Centers for
Families and Children, tenant — appeal to be heard on 3/17/14 (Cal. 14-022) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267

Budget
Appropriations — Year 2014 — current expenses and other expenses — Finance
Department (O 180-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256-257

Capital Projects
Hermes 10 Miler — permit — April 26th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 15) (O 274-14) . . .
Jefferson Avenue, S.W. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 200-14) . .
Larchmere Blvd. (Martin Luther King Jr., Blvd. to North Moreland) rehabilitation — consent —
State of Ohio (O 303-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Max Hayes School Run — permit — April 6th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
(Ward 15) (O 275-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ragin Cajin Run/Walk — permit — March 4th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
(Ward 03) (O 307-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Malachi’s Church Run — permit — March 15th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 03)
(O 308-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
United Cerebral Palsy of Greater Cleveland Run — permit — May 4th — Hermes Sports &
Events, Inc. (Ward 07) (O 276-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 67th St., — encroach into right-of-way — frost slab, pier shoring, and an entrance
doorway — Near West Theater, Inc. (Ward 15) (O 301-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 274
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 274
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 274
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 275
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 249

Charter
Charter Amendment to ballot regarding digital legislation — Amend Section 33 (O 280-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

City Council
Support Cleveland’s bid to host the Presidential Nominating National Convention in 2016 —
Democratic and Republican National Convention (R 281-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272

City of Cleveland Bids
Demolition of City facilities — Package D — Platt Avenue Park Station (Re-bid) — Office
of Capital Projects — Division of Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord.
747-13 — bid due March 28, 2014 (advertised 3/5/2014 and 3/12/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fleet Avenue rehabilitation project (Independence Rd. to Broadway Ave.) — Department of
Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 608-12 — bid due March 14, 2014
(advertised 2/19/2014 and 2/26/2014 and 3/5/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard Yard Facility improvements, 2014 (Re-bid) — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water — per Ord. 1542-09 — bid due March 26, 2014 (advertised 2/26/2014
and 3/5/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Landscape maintenance, installation and replacement — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water — per Ord. 863-13 — bid due March 26, 2014 (advertised 2/26/2014
and 3/5/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Plants and exterior landscaping maintenance and replacement — Department of Port Control —
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid
due March 20, 2014 (advertised 2/26/2014 and 3/5/2014). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recyclable materials processing — Department of Public Works — Division
of Waste Collection and Disposal — per C.O. Sec. 181.18 — bid due March
27, 2014 (advertised 3/5/2014 and 3/12/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sewer rehabilitation and relining — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water
Pollution Control — per Ord. 996-03 — bid due March 14, 2014 (advertised 2/26/2014
and 3/5/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Side Market, Phase 4A Refrigeration System upgrade (Re-bid) — Office of Capital
Projects — Division of Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord. 747-13 — bid due
March 28, 2014 (advertised 3/5/2014 and 3/12/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

278

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271

March 5, 2014

The City Record

35

City Planning Commission
Jefferson Avenue, S.W. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 200-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 274
Slavic Village Broadway Gateway Project “Cycle of Arches” — agreement — Slavic Village
Development (Ward(s) 12, 05 CF) (O 310-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
West 117th St. (east side) and West 116th St. (south of Clifton Blvd. and along the
railroad tracks) — change, Use, Area, and Height Districts (Ward 15) (O 309-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 251

Clerk Of Council
Charter Amendment to ballot regarding digital legislation — Amend Section 33 (O 280-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

Cleveland Public Power (CPP)
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2012-180 — Customer Care and Billing System —
SourceLink, Ohio LLC (O 302-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 249

Commemoration
Turk, John (R 330-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247

Communications
Safety Department — Acceptance of a gift from David A. Russo — two weight lifting benches —
First District Police Fitness Room (F 318-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247

Community Development
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1533-13 — Hunger Center Program — University Settlement, Inc.
(Ward(s) 05, 12 NCF) (O 311-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 255
Sell City-owned property — Crayton Ave. & East 51 St. — Perk Company Inc. — Amend
Sections 1 & 2 of Ord. 752-13 (Ward 05) (O 123-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

Condolences
Knaus, Steven (R 331-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247
Osborn, Jr., Roland L. (R 320-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247
Watkins, Thomas Jason (R 319-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247

Congratulations
Bradley, Margie (R 322-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dagg, Ann (R 327-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 80th Slovenian National Home (R 328-14) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gabrosek, Martha (R 326-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hiti, Anthony W. (R 324-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jisa, Rose Marie (R 325-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lynch, Thomas M. — 2014 Hibernian of the Year (R 321-14)
Marvar, Raymond J. (R 323-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Williams, Calvin — Chief of Cleveland Police (R 329-14) . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

247
247
247
247
247
247
247
247
247

Contracts
Applied Industrial Technologies — agreement — release debt reserve — Economic
Development Department (O 304-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cellular devices and services, wireless connectivity and equipment — Information Technology
and Service Division (O 305-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
County’s Sheriff’s Department take over booking, housing and other related services for
City Prisoners (O 299-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crown Filter Rehabilitation Project #601 — Contract: #PI2010000000054 — Shook, Inc. —
Utilities Department (Statement of Final Acceptance) (F 317-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — discount prepayment — National Terminals, LLC — Contract
Nos. 49981 (UDAG) & 49982 (NDIF) (O 197-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2012-180 — Customer Care and Billing System —
SourceLink, Ohio LLC (O 302-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Larchmere Blvd. (Martin Luther King Jr., Blvd. to North Moreland) rehabilitation — consent —
State of Ohio (O 303-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transfer the responsibility of answering cellular 9-1-1 calls made within the City
of Cleveland from the County to the City (O 298-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Hospitals Health System to establish a Police Agency (O 300-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 250
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 250
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 249
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248

Cuyahoga County
Cleveland Convention Center Hotel — TIF — Economic Development Department (O 306-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 250
County’s Sheriff’s Department take over booking, housing and other related services for
City Prisoners (O 299-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248

279

The City Record

36

March 5, 2014

Support Cleveland’s bid to host the Presidential Nominating National Convention in 2016 —
Democratic and Republican National Convention (R 281-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272
Transfer the responsibility of answering cellular 9-1-1 calls made within the City
of Cleveland from the County to the City (O 298-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248

Cuyahoga County Port Authority
Urging Ohio EPA to deny the US Army Corps of Engineers’ (Corps) application to dispose
of contaminated dredge (R 312-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 255

Detroit-Shoreway Community Development Corporation
Near West Lofts Storefront — Detroit Ave., 6710 — Support State Historic Tax Credits for
historic redevelopment projects (Ward 15) (R 278-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271

Economic Development Department
Applied Industrial Technologies — agreement — release debt reserve (O 304-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 250
Cleveland Convention Center Hotel — TIF — Cuyahoga County (O 306-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 250
Discount prepayment — National Terminals, LLC — Contract Nos. 49981 (UDAG) &
49982 (NDIF) (O 197-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

Encroachments
West 67th St., — right-of-way — frost slab, pier shoring, and an entrance doorway — Near
West Theater, Inc. — Capital Projects Office (Ward 15) (O 301-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 249

Finance Department
Appropriations — Year 2014 — current expenses and other expenses (O 180-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256-257
Cellular devices and services, wireless connectivity and equipment — Information Technology
and Service Division (O 305-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 250
Salary and wage schedules — Section 34 and 39 — amend Ord. 1689-11 as amended —
Human Resources Department (O 190-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

Gifts
Safety Department — Acceptance of a gift from David A. Russo — two weight lifting
benches — First District Police Fitness Room (F 318-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247

Human Resources Department
Salary and wage schedules — Section 34 and 39 — amend Ord. 1689-11 as amended — Finance
Department (O 190-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

Liquor Permits
Broadway Ave., 6966 (1st fl. and bsmt, Unit 1) — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal
Res. 1346-13 (Ward 12) (R 313-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 85th St., 1035 — stock application (Ward 08) (F 315-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeside Ave., 3232 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03) (R 284-14) . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Sq., 55 (1st fl, bsmt., and patio) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership —
repeal Res. 1355-13 (Ward 03) (R 333-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 12307 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res.
1067-13 (Ward 08) (R 332-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 14804 — Economic Development Transfer Application (Ward 10) (F 316-14) .
Superior Ave., 5300 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res.
1206-13 (Ward 10) (R 314-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th St., 3935 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 11) (R 283-14) . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 255
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 273
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 273

Loans
Economic Development — discount prepayment — National Terminals, LLC — Contract
Nos. 49981 (UDAG) & 49982 (NDIF) (O 197-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

Mayor’s Office
Support Cleveland’s bid to host the Presidential Nominating National Convention in 2016 —
Democratic and Republican National Convention (R 281-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272

Ohio Department Of Transportation (ODOT)
Larchmere Blvd. (Martin Luther King Jr., Blvd. to North Moreland) rehabilitation — consent —
State of Ohio (O 303-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

280

March 5, 2014

The City Record

37

Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
Urging Ohio EPA to deny the US Army Corps of Engineers’ (Corps) application to dispose
of contaminated dredge (R 312-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 255

Ohio Revised Code
University Hospitals Health System to establish a Police Agency (O 300-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248

Permits
Hermes 10 Miler — April 26th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 15) (O 274-14) . . . . . . . . .
Max Hayes School Run — April 6th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 15) (O 275-14) . . . .
Ragin Cajin Run/Walk — March 4th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 03) (O 307-14) . . .
St. Malachi’s Church Run — March 15th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 03) (O 308-14)
United Cerebral Palsy of Greater Cleveland Run — May 4th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
(Ward 07) (O 276-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 67th St., — encroach into right-of-way — frost slab, pier shoring, and an entrance
doorway — Near West Theater, Inc. — Capital Projects Office (Ward 15) (O 301-14) . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

274
274
254
254

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 275
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 249

Police Division
Transfer the responsibility of answering cellular 9-1-1 calls made within the City
of Cleveland from the County to the City (O 298-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248
University Hospitals Health System to establish a Police Agency (O 300-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248

Professional Services
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2012-180 — Customer Care and Billing System —
SourceLink, Ohio LLC (O 302-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 249

Public Improvements
Larchmere Blvd. (Martin Luther King Jr., Blvd. to North Moreland) rehabilitation — consent —
State of Ohio (O 303-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

Purchases and Supplies Division
Sell City-owned property — Crayton Ave. & East 51 St. — Perk Company Inc. — Amend
Sections 1 & 2 of Ord. 752-13 (Ward 05) (O 123-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

Races
Hermes 10 Miler — permit — April 26th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 15) (O 274-14) .
Max Hayes School Run — permit — April 6th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
(Ward 15) (O 275-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ragin Cajin Run/Walk — permit — March 4th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
(Ward 03) (O 307-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Malachi’s Church Run — permit — March 15th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 03)
(O 308-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
United Cerebral Palsy of Greater Cleveland Run — permit — May 4th — Hermes Sports &
Events, Inc. (Ward 07) (O 276-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 274
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 274
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 275

Resolution Of Support
Council supports Ukrainians’ aspirations for democracy, national sovereignty
and association with Europe (R 285-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lion Knitting Mills Bldg. , West 25th St., 3256 — Support State Historic Tax Credits for
historic redevelopment projects (R 277-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Near West Lofts Storefront — Detroit Ave., 6710 — Support State Historic Tax Credits for
historic redevelopment projects (Ward 15) (R 278-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support Cleveland’s bid to host the Presidential Nominating National Convention in 2016 —
Democratic and Republican National Convention (R 281-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support Federal SB 394 — Metal Theft Prevention Act of 2013 (R 282-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Variety Theatre Bldg. — Lorain Ave., 11815 — Support State Historic Tax Credits for
historic redevelopment projects (Ward 11) (R 279-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 273
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Council supports Ukrainians’ aspirations for democracy, national sovereignty
and association with Europe (R 285-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 273
Support Federal SB 394 — Metal Theft Prevention Act of 2013 (R 282-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272
Urging Ohio EPA to deny the US Army Corps of Engineers’ (Corps) application to dispose
of contaminated dredge (R 312-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 255

281

The City Record

38

March 5, 2014

Safety Department
Acceptance of a gift from David A. Russo — two weight lifting benches — First District
Police Fitness Room (F 318-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
County’s Sheriff’s Department take over booking, housing and other related services for
City Prisoners (O 299-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transfer the responsibility of answering cellular 9-1-1 calls made within the City
of Cleveland from the County to the City (O 298-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Hospitals Health System to establish a Police Agency (O 300-14) . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248

Salaries
Salary and wage schedules — Section 34 and 39 — amend Ord. 1689-11 as amended — Finance
Department — Human Resources Department (O 190-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

Senate Bills
Support Federal SB 394 — Metal Theft Prevention Act of 2013 (R 282-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272

Slavic Village Development Corporation
Slavic Village Broadway Gateway Project “Cycle of Arches” — agreement — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 12, 05 CF) (O 310-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

State Of Ohio
Larchmere Blvd. (Martin Luther King Jr., Blvd. to North Moreland) rehabilitation — consent
(O 303-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
Support Cleveland’s bid to host the Presidential Nominating National Convention in 2016 —
Democratic and Republican National Convention (R 281-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272

Statement Of Work Acceptance
Crown Filter Rehabilitation Project #601 — Contract: #PI2010000000054 — Shook, Inc. —
Utilities Department (Statement of Final Acceptance) (F 317-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247

Street Vacation
Jefferson Avenue, S.W. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 03) (O 200-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 274

Tax Credits
Lion Knitting Mills Bldg. , West 25th St., 3256 — Support State Historic Tax Credits for
historic redevelopment projects (R 277-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271
Near West Lofts Storefront — Detroit Ave., 6710 — Support State Historic Tax Credits for
historic redevelopment projects (Ward 15) (R 278-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271
Variety Theatre Bldg. — Lorain Ave., 11815 — Support State Historic Tax Credits for
historic redevelopment projects (Ward 11) (R 279-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271

Taxes
Cleveland Convention Center Hotel — TIF — Economic Development Department —
Cuyahoga County (O 306-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 250

Utilities Department
Crown Filter Rehabilitation Project #601 — Contract: #PI2010000000054 — Shook, Inc. —
(Statement of Final Acceptance) (F 317-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2012-180 — Customer Care and Billing System —
SourceLink, Ohio LLC (O 302-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 249

Ward 02
Bradley, Margie — Congratulations (R 322-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247

Ward 03
Cleveland Convention Center Hotel — TIF — Economic Development Department —
Cuyahoga County (O 306-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Council supports Ukrainians’ aspirations for democracy, national sovereignty
and association with Europe (R 285-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dagg, Ann — Congratulations (R 327-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 80th Slovenian National Home — Congratulations (R 328-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — discount prepayment — National Terminals, LLC — Contract
Nos. 49981 (UDAG) & 49982 (NDIF) (O 197-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

282

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 250
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 273
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

March 5, 2014

The City Record

39

Gabrosek, Martha — Congratulations (R 326-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hiti, Anthony W. — Congratulations (R 324-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jefferson Avenue, S.W. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (O 200-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jisa, Rose Marie — Congratulations (R 325-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeside Ave., 3232 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 284-14) . . . . . . . .
Marvar, Raymond J. — Congratulations (R 323-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Sq., 55 (1st fl, bsmt., and patio) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership —
repeal Res. 1355-13 — liquor permit (R 333-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ragin Cajin Run/Walk — permit — March 4th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (O 307-14) . . .
St. Malachi’s Church Run — permit — March 15th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (O 308-14)
Turk, John — Commemoration — (R 330-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

274
247
273
247

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

256
254
254
247

Ward 05
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1533-13 — Hunger Center Program — University Settlement, Inc. —
Community Development (Ward (s) 05, 12 NCF) (O 311-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 255
Sell City-owned property — Crayton Ave. & East 51 St. — Perk Company Inc. — Amend
Sections 1 & 2 of Ord. 752-13 (Ward 05) (O 123-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257
Slavic Village Broadway Gateway Project “Cycle of Arches” — agreement — Slavic Village
Development — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 12, 05 CF) (O 310-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

Ward 06
Larchmere Blvd. (Martin Luther King Jr., Blvd. to North Moreland) rehabilitation — consent —
State of Ohio (O 303-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

Ward 07
United Cerebral Palsy of Greater Cleveland Run — permit — May 4th — Hermes
Events, Inc. (Ward 07) (O 276-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Watkins, Thomas Jason — Condolence (R 319-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Williams, Calvin — Chief of Cleveland Police — Congratulations (R 329-14) . . . .

Sports &
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 275
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247

Ward 08
Council supports Ukrainians’ aspirations for democracy, national sovereignty
and association with Europe (R 285-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dagg, Ann — Congratulations (R 327-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 80th Slovenian National Home — Congratulations (R 328-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 85th St., 1035 — stock application — liquor permit (F 315-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gabrosek, Martha — Congratulations (R 326-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hiti, Anthony W. — Congratulations (R 324-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jisa, Rose Marie — Congratulations (R 325-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Knaus, Steven — Condolence (R 331-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marvar, Raymond J. — Congratulations (R 323-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 12307 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res.
1067-13 — liquor permit (R 332-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Turk, John — Commemoration — (R 330-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

273
247
247
247
247
247
247
247
247

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247

Ward 09
Osborn, Jr., Roland L. — Condolence (R 320-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247

Ward 10
St. Clair Ave., 14804 — Economic Development Transfer Application — liquor permit (F 316-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247
Superior Ave., 5300 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res.
1206-13 — liquor permit (R 314-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256

Ward 11
Council supports Ukrainians’ aspirations for democracy, national sovereignty
and association with Europe (R 285-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 273
Variety Theatre Bldg. — Lorain Ave., 11815 — Support State Historic Tax Credits for
historic redevelopment projects (R 279-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271
West 130th St., 3935 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 283-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 273

Ward 12
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1533-13 — Hunger Center Program — University Settlement, Inc. —
Community Development (Ward (s) 05, 12 NCF) (O 311-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 255
Broadway Ave., 6966 (1st fl. and bsmt, Unit 1) — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal
Res. 1346-13 — liquor permit (R 313-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 255

283

The City Record

40

March 5, 2014

Council supports Ukrainians’ aspirations for democracy, national sovereignty
and association with Europe (R 285-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 273
Slavic Village Broadway Gateway Project “Cycle of Arches” — agreement — Slavic Village
Development — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 12, 05 CF) (O 310-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
Support Federal SB 394 — Metal Theft Prevention Act of 2013 (R 282-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272

Ward 13
Lynch, Thomas M. — 2014 Hibernian of the Year — Congratulations (R 321-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247

Ward 14
Council supports Ukrainians’ aspirations for democracy, national sovereignty
and association with Europe (R 285-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 273
Lion Knitting Mills Bldg. , West 25th St., 3256 — Support State Historic Tax Credits for
historic redevelopment projects (R 277-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271

Ward 15
Council supports Ukrainians’ aspirations for democracy, national sovereignty
and association with Europe (R 285-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hermes 10 Miler — permit — April 26th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (O 274-14) . . . . . .
Max Hayes School Run — permit — April 6th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (O 275-14) .
Near West Lofts Storefront — Detroit Ave., 6710 — Support State Historic Tax Credits for
historic redevelopment projects (R 278-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 117th St. (east side) and West 116th St. (south of Clifton Blvd. and along the
railroad tracks) — change, Use, Area, and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (O 309-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 67th St., — encroach into right-of-way — frost slab, pier shoring, and an entrance
doorway — Near West Theater, Inc. — Capital Projects Office (O 301-14) . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 273
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 274
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 274
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 251
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 249

Water Division
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2012-180 — Customer Care and Billing System —
SourceLink, Ohio LLC (O 302-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 249

Zoning
West 117th St. (east side) and West 116th St. (south of Clifton Blvd. and along the
railroad tracks) — change, Use, Area, and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (Ward 15) (O 309-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 251

284

