The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

August the Twenty-Seventh, Two Thousand and Fourteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

41

Board of Control

41

Civil Service

44

1 Terrell H. Pruitt

Board of Zoning Appeals

48

2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
49

4 Kenneth L. Johnson

Public Notice

49

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

49

6 Mamie J. Mitchell

City of Cleveland Bids

50

7 TJ Dow

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

50

Committee Meetings

77

Index

78

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Jeffrey D. Johnson
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Martin J. Sweeney
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zack Reed ..........................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Martin J. Flask, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Special Projects
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Paul Bender, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Toinette Parrilla, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Chantez Williams, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Myron Benett, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Eugene R. Miller, (Board Lawyer), Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice
Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary
Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa
Ryan, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth
Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member _____________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director; Anthony
J. Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Robert N. Brown, Allan Dreyer, Giancarlo Calicchia, Council Member
Terrell H. Pruitt, Robert Vilkas, Donald Petit, Interim Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Ed Wade – Courtroom 12A
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Chief Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 27, 2014

Vol. 101

No. 5255

CITY COUNCIL
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 20, 2014
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2014-2017
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman
(CHAIR), Mitchell (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Property Committee: K. Johnson
(CHAIR), Sweeney (VICE-CHAIR),
Brancatelli, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, Reed.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley (CHAIR), Cleveland (VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Cimperman, Cummins, Dow, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR),
Brady
(VICEBrancatelli,
Cummins,
CHAIR),
Keane, Mitchell, Polensek.

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:
Mayor's Appointments Committee:
Sweeney (CHAIR), Brady, Cleveland, Dow, Kelley.
Operations
Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR), Kelley, Keane, Mitchell,
Zone.
Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Keane, Pruitt.

Kelley
Cummins,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Wednesday, August 20, 2014
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 1:35 p.m. with the
President of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Brian J. Cummins, TJ Dow, Jeffrey
D. Johnson, Kevin J. Kelley, Kenneth L. Johnson, Martin J. Keane,
Mamie
J.
Mitchell,
Michael
D.
Polensek, Terrell H. Pruitt, Zack
Reed,
Martin
J.
Sweeney
and
Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief Operating Officer
Darnell Brown, Chief of Government
Affairs Valarie J. McCall, Chief of
Communications Maureen Harper,
and
Directors
Langhenry,
Rush,
Southerington, Fumich, and Ambroz.
Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection,
and the Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Keane, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Brady.
MAYOR’S APPOINTMENTS
File No. 1039-14.
August 14, 2014

1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Zone (VICE-CHAIR),
J.Johnson, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Sweeney.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone
(CHAIR),
Conwell
(VICECHAIR), Cimperman, Dow, K.Johnson, Keane, Polensek.
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Dow
(VICE-CHAIR), Conwell, J. Johnson,
K.Johnson, Reed, Sweeney.

The Honorable Kevin J. Kelley
City Council President
Cleveland City Council
601 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44114
The Honorable Martin J. Sweeney
Chairman, Mayor’s Appointments
Cleveland City Council
601 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44114

upcoming meeting of Cleveland City
Council’s Mayor’s Appointment Committee. New appointments are indicated as appropriate.
Citizens Industrial Air Pollution
Advisory Committee
Jason Bristol, Term Ending 3-10-2015
Elvin Vauss, Term Ending 3-10-2015
Aparna Bole, Term Ending 3-10-2015
City Landmarks Commission
Robert Strickland, Term Ending 1231-2017 (Commercial Property Owner)
Julie Trott, Term Ending 12-31-2017
(Architect)
Donett Graves, Term Ending 12-312017 (Attorney)
City Planning Commission
Tim Tramble, Term Ending 11-2-2018
Cleveland- Cuyahoga County Port
Authority
Paul Hoogenboom, Term Ending 1-282018
Gena C. Lovett, Term Ending 1-28-2018
Community Relations Board
Gia Hoa Ryan, Term Ending 3-31-2018
Charles Lucas, Jr., Term Ending 3-312018
Gary Johnson, Sr., Term Ending 3-312018
Roland Muhammad, Term Ending 331-2018
John Horton, Term Ending 3-31-2018
Consumer Council Advisory Board
Benjamin D. Faller, Term Ending 813-17
Lon´Cherie´ D. Billingsley, Term Ending 8-13-17
Julie Robie, Term Ending 8-13-15
Johnny Wu, Term Ending 8-13-16
Greater Cleveland Regional Transportation Authority
Valarie J. McCall, Term Ending 3-32017
George F. Dixon, Term Ending 3-32017
Police Review Board
Clarence Moore, Term Ending 8-8-2017
Mary Clark, Term Ending 8-8-2017
Additionally,
resumes
and/or
biographies are attached for the
candidates. I can be reached at
216.664.3544 or vmccall@city.cleveland.oh.us or Tracy Anderson at 216664-2902
or
tanderson@city.cleveland.oh.us if you have any questions.
Thank you in advance for your
cooperation.
Sincerely,
Valerie J. McCall
Chief of Government Affairs
Received.
Referred to Committee on Mayor’s
Appointments.

Dear Council President Kevin J, Kelley and Chairman Martin J. Sweeney:

COMMUNICATIONS

Included below are the names and
term ending dates of the Mayor’s nominations to be considered at the

File No. 1032-14.
From
David
Gretick,
Program
Director, Office of Mental Health

1191

The City Record

4
and Substance Abuse, Department of
Public Health, City of Cleveland.
Notice of acceptance of a contract
award from Ohio MHAS/Access to
Recovery to support adult outpatient
substance abuse treatment services.
Received.
File No. 1033-14.
From Toinette Parrilla, Director,
Department of Public Health, City
of Cleveland. Notice of acceptance of
grants from the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services Office
of Minority Health, and from Paramount Advantage, to be used for
Happy
Health
Babies
—
Baby
Buggy Walk in the Park event.
Received.
File No. 1036-14.
From Cindy Picone, Vice President, Ralph A. Falbo, Inc. Notice of
intent to submit an application to
utilize
multifamily
funding
programs of the Ohio Housing Finance
Agency for Cedar Extension Redevelopment Phase II, at the corner of
Community
College
Avenue
and
East 30th Street in Cleveland, Ohio.
Received.
File No. 1037-14.
From Jessica Thacker, First Energy
Service
Company.
Notice
of
Reconductor and Structure Replacement Project (Case No. 14-1302-ELBLN) by American Transmission
Systems, Inc. Received.
File No. 1038-14.
From
Jane
Fumich.
Director,
Department of Aging, City of Cleveland. Notification of grant acceptance from the National Council on
Aging to support the 2014-2015 Flu
+ You Program. Received.
OATHS OF OFFICE
File No. 1034-14.
Grace A. Kilbane, Director of
Workforce Development. Received.
File No. 1035-14.
Edward
W.
Rybka,
Chief
of
Regional Development. Received.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1040-14.
RE: #6857042. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1 C2. Petro Energy Northeast, Inc., 910 East 185th St.
(Ward 8). Received.
File No. 1041-14.
RE: #9526240. Stock Application,
C1. West 25th Gas & Go, Inc., 3474
West 25th St. (Ward 14). Received.
File No. 1042-14.
RE: #9750087. Transfer of Location Application, D1 D2 D6. Wonton
Gourmet Cleveland, Inc., 3211 Payne
Ave. (Ward 7). Received.
File No. 1043-14.
RE: #2215332. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A D6.
DLNGR 11 Corp., 10323 and 10327
Lorain Ave. (Ward 11). Received.
File No. 1044-14.
RE: #3835553. New License Application, D5H. Hildebrandt Corp., 3619
Walton Ave. (Ward 14). Received.
File No. 1045-14.
RE: #2582130. New License Application, D5J. Euclid Tavern Group,
Inc., 11625 Euclid Ave. (Ward 9).
Received.

File No. 1046-14.
RE: #6280919. Transfer of Location Application, C1 C2. Nadeen
Foods, Inc., 917 East 105th St. (Ward
9). Received.
File No. 1047-14.
RE: #44836140010. New License
Application, D5H. Karamu House,
Inc., 2355 East 89th St. (Ward 6).
Received.
File No. 1048-14.
RE:
#72040040010.
Transfer
of
Location Application, C2 C2X. Rauhi
Rahman, 4096 East 131st St. (Ward
2). Received.
File No. 1049-14.
RE: #1547505. Transfer of Ownership Application, D5 D6. Cleveland
Music
School
Settlement,
2920
Detroit Ave. (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 1050-14.
RE: #3479137. New License Application, C1. Habibi Market, Inc., 5105
Franklin Blvd. (Ward 15). Received.
File No. 1051-14.
RE:
#15432800005.
Transfer
of
Ownership Application, D2 D2X D3
D3A D6. Cleveland Beverage, LLC,
850 Euclid Ave. (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 1052-14.
RE: #0004500. New License Application, C1. AK Beverage, LLC, 3312
West 105th St. (Ward 11). Received.
File No. 1053-14.
RE: #9276825. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2 D3 D6.
Vinafresh, Inc., 2061 East 4th St.
(Ward 3). Received.
File No. 1054-14.
RE: #2600110. Stock Application,
D2 D2X D3 D3A D6. FSS Investors,
LLC, 1300 West 9th St. (Ward 3).
Received.
File No. 1055-14.
RE: #5870838. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2. Metro Food
and Beverage, Inc., 3203 West 25th
St. (Ward 14). Received.
File No. 1056-14.
RE: #4966280. Transfer of Ownership Application, D5 D6. Lady A’s
Kitchen, 3021 West 105th St. (Ward
15). Received.

August 27, 2014
Res. No. 1079-14—Pastor Barbara
A. Dillard.
Res. No. 1080-14—Bishop J. Delano
Ellis.
Res. No. 1081-14—Slovenian National Home (100th Anniversary) & Hall
(90th Anniversary).
Res. No. 1082-14—Holy Redeemer
Parish (90th Anniversary).
Res. No. 1083-14—Job Corps Program (50th Anniversary).
Res. No. 1084-14—Rev. Steven Marcus Butler.
Res. No. 1085-14—New Bethlehem
Baptist Church (90th Anniversary).
Res. No. 1086-14—William “Bill”
Resseger.
Res.
No.
1087-14—Community
Assessment & Treatment Services
(CATS on Broadway Gala).
Res. No. 1088-14—Sgt. Michael W.
Richardson, 9804.
Res. No. 1089-14—Tom Collins.
Res. No. 1090-14—Rev. John D.
Jackson, Sr.
Res.
No.
1091-14—Mother
Roy
Mitchell-Monroe.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1092-14—Kinsman Dazz
Band.
Res. No. 1093-14—Ashley Family
Reunion.
Res. No. 1094-14—Lutheran Hospital
—
Pathway
to
Excellence
Award.
Res.
No.
1095-14—Matthew
J.
Borges.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1096-14—David B. Bailey.
Res.
No.
1097-14—Dr.
Ann
B.
Reichsman.
WELCOME RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1098-14—Maurice Hines.
COMMEMORATION RESOLUTIONS

CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1069-14—Thelma Choma.
Res. No. 1070-14—Birdie Elaine
Plummer-Roquemore.
Res. No. 1071-14—Rev. John Wesley Aden, Sr.
Res.No.
1072-14—Diana
Marie
Lewis.
Res. No. 1073-14—DeVonté MortonMcCurdy.
Res. No. 1074-14—Howard James.
Res. No. 1075-14—Roberta Green.
Res. No. 1076-14—Henry William
Washington.
Res. No. 1077-14—Sophia Yvonne
Johnson.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1078-14—Mathew & Inez
Adams (70th Wedding Anniversary).

1192

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1099-14—Edward August
Schroeder II, Lance Corporal, United
States Marine Corps.
Res. No. 1100-14—Daniel Agami,
Private First Class, United States
Army.
Res.
No.
1101-14—Samuel
R.
Bowen, Private First Class, United
States Army.
Res. No. 1102-14—Robert J. Dowdy,
First Sergeant, United States Army.
Res. No. 1103-14—Robert F. Eckfield, Jr., Lance Corporal,
United
States Marine Corps.
Res. No. 1104-14—Jason J. Fabrizi,
Sergeant First Class, United States
Army.
Res. No. 1105-14—Joseph Martin
Garmback, Jr., Specialist, United
States Army.
Res. No. 1106-14—Charles M. King,
First Sergeant, United States Army.
Res. No. 1107-14—David A. Mendez
Ruiz, Lance Corporal, United States
Marine Corps.

The City Record

August 27, 2014

5

FIRST READING EMERGENCY ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 979-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make additional appropriations of Five Million One Hundred Fifty One Thousand,
Seven Hundred Ninety Three ($5,151,793) of Enterprise Funds.
Whereas, there remains an unappropriated balance in the various funds, the sum of Five Million, One Hundred
Fifty One Thousand, Seven Hundred Ninety Three Dollars ($5,151,793) which is available for additional appropriation; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That there is hereby appropriated the additional revenue as set forth in the Amended Official Certificate of Estimated Resources previously unappropriated as follows:

ENTERPRISE FUND

5,151,793
———————
5,151,793

TOTAL ALL FUNDS

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
Division of Public Utilities Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

743,643

743,643

Division of Fiscal Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

1,255,050

Division of Water Pollution Control
II.
Other Expenses

3,153,100

1,255,050

3,153,100
———————
5,151,793
———————
5,151,793
———————
5,151,793
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUND
TOTAL ALL FUNDS

Section 2. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 980-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to provide for the transfer and amendment to the Enterprise appropriations in the
amount of One Million Nine Hundred Ninety Eight Thousand, Six Hundred Ninety Three ($1,998,693).
Whereas, in accordance with Section 41 of the Charter, the Mayor has recommended in writing the within transfer; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That amendment to the Enterprise Fund appropriations in the amount of One Million, Nine Hundred
Ninety Eight Thousand, Six Hundred Ninety Three Dollars ($1,998,693), as follows:
ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
Transfer
To
Division of Cleveland Public Power
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS
TOTAL ALL FUNDS

1193

Transfer
From

1,998,693
———————————————
1,998,693
———————————————
1,998,693
———————————————
1,998,693
———————————————
———————————————

6

The City Record

August 27, 2014

Section 2. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.

Ord. No. 981-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development, with the approval of the
Director of Law, to enter into one or
more agreements or amendments to
agreements with Higbee Mothership,
LLC, or its successors or assigns or
designee, to provide that certain service payments collected be used to
finance a portion of the costs of certain infrastructure, park and other
improvements to and around Public
Square.
Whereas, by Ordinance No 2247-02,
passed December 16, 2002, this Council authorized the Director of Economic Development to enter into
agreements with various property
owners in the Euclid/Prospect II
Community Development Plan Area
(the “Area”) to provide tax increment
financing pursuant to Sections 5709.41
and 5709.42 of the Ohio Revised Code,
to partially finance certain improvements and to provide service payments in lieu of taxes, and to declare
certain improvements to real property
to be a public purpose; and
Whereas, this Council and the
owner of certain parcels in the Area
have determined to enter into one or
more agreements to cooperate in
financing a portion of the cost of constructing certain infrastructure, park
and other improvements to and
around the area known as Public
Square, as part of the planned reconstruction and renovation of Public
Square; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
finds, determines and confirms that
certain infrastructure, park and other
improvements to and around Public
Square are uses that support the residential, office, retail, restaurant and
entertainment facilities as described
in Section 8(a)(ii) of Ordinance No.
2247-02.
Section 2. That the Director of Economic
Development,
with
the
approval of the Director of Law, is
authorized to enter into one or more
agreements or amendments to agreements with Higbee Mothership, LLC,
or its successors or assigns or
designee, to provide that certain service payments collected be used to
finance a portion of the costs of certain infrastructure, park and other
improvements to and around Public
Square (the “Improvements”). Such
agreement or agreements shall contain such other terms and conditions
as the Directors of Economic Development and Law deem necessary to protect the public interest.
Section 3. That the Director of Economic
Development,
with
the
approval of the Director of Law, is
authorized to enter into one or more
agreements with such parties as may
be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the purposes of this ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure

and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Development Planning and
Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 982-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 1105-13, passed September 23, 2013,
relating to the public improvement of
cleaning, cement mortar lining, and
replacing various distribution water
mains in 2014 and 2015.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section
1 of Ordinance No. 1105-13, passed September 23, 2013, are amended to read
as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of cleaning, cement
mortar lining, structural lining, and
replacing various distribution water
mains in 2014 and 2015; and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more public improvement contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it
is determined to make the public
improvement of cleaning, cement
mortar lining, structural lining, and
replacing various distribution water
mains in the City of Cleveland in 2014
and 2015, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, by one
or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding upon a unit basis
for the improvement.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1105-13,
passed September 23, 2013, are
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 983-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. CT 2002 2010-257 with Itron, Inc. to
complete the implementation of the
Automatic Meter Reading System
Program.

1194

Whereas, under Ordinance No. 77507, passed July 11, 2007, as amended
by Ordinance No. 513-10, passed May
10, 2010, this Council authorized Contract No. CT 2002 2010-257 with Itron,
Inc. to implement a meter automation,
replacement, and water loss control
program, known as the Automatic
Meter Reading System Program (the
“AMR Program”); and
Whereas, additional deployment
and minor plumbing services for the
remaining residential and commercial accounts are necessary in order
to complete the implementation of the
AMR Program; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
an amendment to Contract No. CT
2002 2010-257 with Itron, Inc. to provide additional deployment and minor
plumbing services for the remaining
residential and commercial accounts
that are necessary in order to complete the implementation of the AMR
Program.
Section 2. That the contract amendment shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 984-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf
of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to
apply for and accept a grant from the
United States Department of Justice,
Bureau of Justice Assistance for the
Residential Opiate Project Grant; and
authorizing the Director to enter into
one or more agreements with various
municipal courts, Community Assessment and Treatment Services, and
Case Western Reserve University to
implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
apply for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $200,000 and
any other funds that become available during the grant term, from the
United States Department of Justice,
Bureau of Justice Assistance, to conduct the Residential Opiate Project
Grant, for the purposes in the application; that the Director of Finance, on

August 27, 2014
behalf of the Cleveland Muncipal
Court, is authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary
to receive the funds under the grant;
and the funds are appropriated for the
purposes in the summary for the
grant.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 984-14-A, is made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, including the obligation of the City of Cleveland to provide cash matching funds
in the amount of $2,028 from Fund No.
10 SF 085, is approved in all respects,
and shall not be changed without
additional
legislative
authority.
(RQS 0115, RL 2014-98)
Section 3. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Muncipal Court, shall have the
authority to extend the term of the
grant if the extension does not
involve an increase in the dollar
amount of the grant specified above.
Section 4. That the Director of
Director of Finance, on behalf of the
Cleveland Muncipal Court, is authorized to enter into one or more agreements with the municipal courts of
the Cities of East Cleveland, Euclid,
Rocky River, Shaker Heights, and
South Euclid, Community Assessment
and Treatment Services, and Case
Western Reserve University to implement the grant as described in the
file.
Section 5. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 6. That the cost of the agreement or purchases made under this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant funds accepted under this ordinance and from the cash match.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 985-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of water
revenue obligations to refund outstanding water revenue obligations;
authorizing agreements related to the
obligations; and authorizing and
approving related matters.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
Ohio, a municipal corporation and
political subdivision of the State of
Ohio, is authorized under Article
XVIII of the Ohio Constitution and
the Charter of the City, among other
things: (a) to own and operate the
public utility referred to as the Waterworks System; (b) to make, from time

The City Record
to time, improvements to the Waterworks System; and (c) to borrow
money for the purpose of paying costs
of those improvements and refunding
outstanding obligations issued for
that purpose; and
Whereas, pursuant to that authority the City has issued Bonds, from
time to time, under the terms of the
Amended and Restated Trust Indenture, effective as of October 5, 2001, as
supplemented and amended from time
to time, between the City and U.S.
Bank National Association, as trustee
(the “Indenture”), and the Bonds are
secured thereunder by a pledge of and
lien on the Net Revenues of the
Waterworks System, each as defined
in the Indenture; and
Whereas, this Council has determined to authorize the issuance by
the City of Refunding Bonds under
the Indenture for the purpose of
refunding
Outstanding
Revenue
Bonds, as defined and provided in this
Ordinance, to obtain debt service savings, or to stabilize interest rates or
minimize risks of increased interest
expense on Outstanding Revenue
Bonds that bear interest at variable
rates, or to eliminate or modify
covenants that are unduly restrictive,
or otherwise to obtain a more favorable debt service structure; and
Whereas, this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department and providing
for the immediate preservation of
public peace, property, health or safety, in that authorizing the issuance
and sale of obligations to refund the
Outstanding Bonds and authorizing
related agreements is necessary to
enable the City to respond to market
conditions on a timely basis for the
benefit of the Waterworks System;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions.
In addition to the words and terms
defined in the Indenture, the following words and terms shall have the
following meanings, unless the context or use clearly indicates another
or different meaning or intent:
“Bonds” or “Water Revenue Bonds”
means all Bonds issued and outstanding under the Indenture.
“Bond Purchase Agreement” means,
as to each Series of Refunding Bonds,
the purchase agreement between the
City and the Original Purchasers
authorized by Section 4 with respect
to that Series.
“Certificate of Award” means, as to
each Series of Refunding Bonds, the
certificate determining the final
terms of the Refunding Bonds of that
Series, consistent with the requirements of this Ordinance, including,
without limitation, Section 4.
“Continuing Disclosure Agreement”
means, as to each Series of Refunding
Bonds, any continuing disclosure
agreement authorized by Section 14.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby bond purchase agreement or other credit enhancement,
support or liquidity facility used to
enhance or provide for the security or
liquidity of Refunding Bonds, or any
Hedge Agreements.
“Escrow Agreement” means one or
more agreements between the City
and the Trustee, in its capacity as
Escrow Agent, authorized by Section
7 or Section 17.

1195

7
“Escrow Fund” means the fund,
including the account or accounts
therein, required to be maintained
with the Trustee, in its capacity as
Escrow Agent pursuant to an Escrow
Agreement.
“Financial Advisor” means any
financial advisory firm or firms
retained by the Director of Finance of
the City, from time to time, pursuant
to Section 18.
“Hedge Agreement” means any
agreement defined as such in Section
11.
“Indenture” means the Original
Indenture as previously supplemented and amended and as further supplemented and amended by Supplemental Indentures as provided in this
Ordinance for the Refunding Bonds.
“Original Indenture” means the
Amended and Restated Trust Indenture, effective October 5, 2001,
between the City and U.S. Bank
National Association, as successor
trustee, delivered under authority of
Ordinance No. 2011-95 passed by the
Council of the City on April 1, 1996
and with the consent of the owners of
66-2/3% of the applicable Outstanding Revenue Bonds under the Indenture of Mortgage dated as of November 1, 1977.
“Original Purchasers” means, with
respect to each Series of Refunding
Bonds, the financial institutions identified in the applicable Certificate of
Award.
“Outstanding
Revenue
Bonds”
means Water Revenue Bonds of the
City issued and outstanding, from
time to time, under the Indenture. On
the date of introduction of this Ordinance the following Bonds are Outstanding: Series G (currently outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$66,220,000), Series N (currently outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$21,865,000), Series O (currently outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$127,660,000, Series P (currently outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$103,990,000), Series Q (currently outin
the
amount
of
standing
$90,800,000), Series  T (currently outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$57,020,000), Series  U (currently outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$54,935,000), Series  V (currently outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$26,495,000), Series W (currently outstanding in the amount of $44,420,000,
and Series  X (currently outstanding
in the amount of $44,410,000).
“Refunded Bonds” means, as to
each Series of Refunding Bonds, the
Outstanding Revenue Bonds designated in the Certificate of Award as
the Water Revenue Bonds to be
refunded with proceeds of that Series
of Refunding Bonds.
“Refunding Bonds” means the
obligations authorized by this Ordinance to be issued in one or more
Series as additional Water Revenue
Bonds under the Indenture for the
purpose of refunding one or more
of
Outstanding
Revenue
Series
Bonds, or designated maturities
thereof, or one or more Series of
Refunding Bonds.
“Supplemental Indenture” means,
as to each Series of Refunding Bonds,
the Supplemental Indenture between
the City and the Trustee securing that
Series of Refunding Bonds as authorized under Section 7.
“Taxable Obligations” means any
Refunding Bonds the interest on
which is intended to be included in
gross income for federal income tax
purposes.

8
“Tax-Exempt Obligations” means
any Refunding Bonds the interest on
which is intended to be excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes.
“Tender Offer” means an offer by
the City to holders of Outstanding
Revenue Bonds for the purchase of
the Outstanding Bonds in lieu of
redemption.
Section 2. Authorization of the
Refunding Bonds.
This Council authorizes the City to
issue the Refunding Bonds in one or
more Series for the purpose of refunding one or more Series of Outstanding
Revenue Bonds, or designated portions thereof, to obtain aggregate net
present value debt service savings of
at least three percent (3%), or to eliminate or modify covenants that are
unduly restrictive, or otherwise to
obtain a more favorable debt service
structure or more favorable terms
under Credit Support Instruments.
With respect to Outstanding Revenue
Bonds that are short-term or variablerate obligations, this Council authorizes the City to issue Refunding
Bonds to refund such Outstanding
Revenue Bonds, or designated portions thereof, on the further basis that
the Director of Finance has determined, based on the written advice of
a Financial Advisor, that such Outstanding Revenue Bonds are subjecting the City to undesirably high rates
of interest or undesirable fluctuations in rates of interest or risks or
expenses associated with Credit Support Instruments that can economically be avoided or mitigated through
refunding. The principal amount of
each Series of Refunding Bonds is to
be the amount set forth in the Certificate of Award authorized in Section 4
and determined by the Director of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, to be necessary (i) to refund the Refunded Bonds
to be refunded by that Series, (ii) to
fund any deposit to the Debt Service
Reserve Fund required under the
Indenture or any special reserve fund
for that Series separate from the Debt
Service Reserve Fund, (iv) to pay
costs of any Credit Support Instruments, (v) to pay any amounts owed
under Hedge Agreements, and (vi) to
pay costs of issuing the Refunding
Bonds and refunding the Refunded
Bonds. The proceeds from the sale of
each Series of Refunding Bonds shall
be allocated, deposited and applied as
provided in Section 5.
The Refunding Bonds may be
issued in one or more separate Series,
each bearing a distinctive designation, provided that the Refunding
Bonds of each Series satisfy the
requirements of this Ordinance. Separate Series of Refunding Bonds may
be issued at the same or different
times. The Refunding Bonds of each
Series shall be designated as provided
in the applicable Certificate of Award
and shall include in the designation
reference to the calendar year in
which the applicable Series is issued.
A separate Certificate of Award and a
separate Supplemental Indenture
shall be delivered for each Series.
Section 3. Variable Rate Refunding
Bonds.
In the event that a Series of Refunding Bonds bear interest at variable
interest rates, then the Director of
Finance is authorized to determine
the method and procedure by which
the variable rate of interest to be
borne by the Refunding Bonds of that

The City Record
Series shall be determined, whether
by reference to a market index, by a
remarketing agent or otherwise; provided that no variable rate Refunding
Bonds may bear interest at a rate in
excess of twenty-five percent (25%)
per year (including any Refunding
Bonds held by a provider of a Credit
Support Instrument). The Director of
Finance may determine that the
terms of a variable rate Series of
Refunding Bonds may or may not permit the holders to tender their variable rate Refunding Bonds for purchase by the City. The Director of
Finance shall also designate in the
Certificate of Award for those variable rate Refunding Bonds (and may
designate others, from time to time, in
substitution therefor) the tender
agent or agents and the remarketing
agent or agents, which designations
shall be based on the determination of
the Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that the parties so designated possess
the requisite resources and experience to provide the services required
of them and that the terms on which
the designated parties have agreed to
provide such services are fair and
commercially reasonable. The Director of Finance is authorized to enter
into agreements in connection with
the delivery of each Series of variable
rate Refunding Bonds, and from time
to time thereafter so long as the variable rate Refunding Bonds of that
Series
are
outstanding,
with
providers of Credit Support Instruments, tender agents (which may be
the Trustee), remarketing agents
(which may be any of the Original
Purchasers), purchasers of tendered
Refunding Bonds, and others as may
be determined by the Director of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, to be necessary or appropriate to provide for (i)
the method of determining the variable interest rates, (ii) the rights and
procedures for tender, (iii) liquidity
or credit support, (iv) repayment by
the City of any amounts drawn under
the Credit Support Instrument, (v)
the direct purchase of tendered
Refunding Bonds, and (vi) other
arrangements in the best interests of
the City. The Director of Finance is
further authorized to terminate any
such agreements if the Director of
Finance determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that the City’s best interests will be
served by such termination. The
Director of Finance is further authorized to enter into agreements, from
time to time so long as the variable
rate Refunding Bonds are outstanding, supplementing or amending the
applicable Supplemental Indenture
for a series of Refunding Bonds as
provided in Section 9. The Director of
Finance is authorized to pay any fees
associated with agreements entered
into or terminated pursuant to this
Section from proceeds of Refunding
Bonds, to the extent permitted by the
Indenture, and from the Net Revenues
of the Utility.
Section 4. Award and Sale of
Refunding Bonds.
The Director of Finance shall sign
and deliver a Certificate of Award for
the Refunding Bonds. In the event the
Refunding Bonds are issued in more
than one series sold at different
times, a separate Certificate of Award
shall be signed and delivered for each
separately delivered series. The sale
of the Refunding Bonds shall be

1196

August 27, 2014
awarded to the Original Purchaser
selected by the Director of Finance
and identified in the Certificate of
Award. In the case of Refunding
Bonds to be underwritten in a public
offering, the Director of Finance
shall select the Original Purchaser
based on her evaluation, in consultation with a Financial Advisor, of the
qualifications and relevant experience of firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Refunding Bonds.
Alternatively, the Director of Finance
may determine, in consultation with a
Financial Advisor, that more advantageous terms for the Refunding
Bonds may be obtained by the private
placement of the Refunding Bonds
with an investor or investors (including financial institutions) purchasing for their own account and not for
resale, in which case the Director of
Finance may designate such investor
or investors as the Original Purchaser. In addition, each Certificate of
Award shall determine the following,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, consistent with
this Ordinance and the Indenture:
(a) the aggregate principal amount
of Refunding Bonds issued;
(b) the purchase price to be paid to
the City by the Original Purchasers,
which amount shall be not less than:
(i) 97% of the amount determined by
adding to the aggregate principal
amount of the Refunding Bonds any
aggregate original issue premium
and subtracting from the amount any
aggregate original issue discount,
plus (ii) any accrued interest on the
Refunding Bonds from their date to
the date of their delivery to the Original Purchasers;
(c) whether any Refunding Bonds
are to be subject to redemption prior
to maturity, and, if so, the redemption
date for those Refunding Bonds subject to prior redemption and the
redemption price, which may be determined as a percentage of the principal amount redeemed or by a formula
intended to make the bondholder
whole for the loss of the investment
resulting from the early redemption
or by other methodology;
(d) the dates on which and amounts
in which principal of the Refunding
Bonds is to be paid, which shall be not
later than thirty (30) years from their
respective dates of issuance, with an
identification of whether the payment is due by stated maturity or by
mandatory sinking fund redemption
of Refunding Bonds of a particular
maturity;
(e) the interest rates to be borne by
Refunding Bonds bearing interest at
a fixed rate, the weighted average of
which shall not exceed six percent
(6%) as to Refunding Bonds of any
Series that are Tax-Exempt Obligations or eight percent (8%) as to
Refunding Bonds of any Series that
are Taxable Obligations, or the
method by which the interest rate is
to be determined for Refunding
Bonds bearing interest at variable
rates, consistent with Section 3;
(f) the particular Outstanding Revenue Bonds or portions thereof to be
Refunded Bonds, and the date or
dates on which the Refunded Bonds
shall be called for redemption or otherwise retired;
(g) the title and Series designation
for the Refunding Bonds;
(h) the amount, if any, and source
of any money to be deposited in the
Debt Service Reserve Fund in order to
cause the balance therein to equal the

August 27, 2014
Debt Service Reserve Requirement, if
and to the extent required by the
applicable Supplemental Indenture,
and any determination as to whether
there shall be a special reserve fund
for the Refunding Bonds of any
Series, separate from the Debt Service
Reserve Fund, and any determination
as to whether a Credit Support Instrument shall be provided in lieu of cash
in the Debt Service Reserve Fund or
such special reserve fund;
(i) the Paying Agent; and
(j) whether any Refunding Bonds
are to be secured by or payable from
any Credit Support Instruments.
It is determined that the terms of
the Refunding Bonds as so determined within the limitations set forth
in this Ordinance and as so specified
and set forth in the Certificate of
Award will be in the best interest of
the City and consistent with all legal
requirements.
The Director of Finance may enter
into a Bond Purchase Agreement with
the Original Purchasers of each
Series of Refunding Bonds setting
forth the conditions for delivery of
the Refunding Bonds that are consistent with this Ordinance, the Certificate of Award, and the Indenture and
that are determined by the Director of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, to be customary for water revenue bonds issued by
governmental entities, including,
without limitation, representations as
to the accuracy and completeness of
information contained in the Official
Statement of the City described in Section 14.
Section 5. Application of Proceeds
of Refunding Bonds.
The proceeds of the sale of each
Series of Refunding Bonds shall be
deposited as provided in the applicable Supplemental Indenture, including:
(a) to the payment of any providers
of any Credit Support Instruments,
the fees and expenses required to be
paid by the City to obtain the Credit
Support Instrument;
(b) to the Trustee, for deposit to the
credit of the Interest Account in the
Debt Service Fund, the amount, if
any, received by the City upon delivery of the Refunding Bonds as
accrued interest on any Refunding
Bonds from their dated date to the
date of the delivery of and payment
for those Refunding Bonds;
(c) to the Trustee, for deposit to the
credit of the Debt Service Reserve
Fund or any special reserve fund, any
amount identified in the Certificate of
Award as required to be deposited in
the Debt Service Reserve Fund or
such special reserve fund from the
proceeds of the Refunding Bonds;
(d) to the Trustee, for payment to
the holders of the Refunded Bonds or
for deposit to the credit of any Escrow
Fund established pursuant to any
Escrow Agreement, proceeds to be
applied to refund the Refunded
Bonds;
(e) to the counterparty under any
Hedge Agreement, any payment
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be paid from the proceeds
of the Refunding Bonds, including
any termination payment in the event
that the Director of Finance determines it is in the best interests of the
City to terminate a Hedge Agreement
relating to Outstanding Revenue
Bonds; and

The City Record
(f) to the Costs of Issuance Fund, to
be created under the applicable Supplemental Indenture, such amounts
as are needed to pay costs of issuing
the Refunding Bonds and refunding
the Refunding Bonds.
Provision shall be made in the Supplemental Indentures for the application of any amounts held in the funds
and accounts established under the
Indenture and no longer required for
the security of Outstanding Revenue
Bonds as a result of the Refunded
Bonds’ no longer being Outstanding,
or any amounts that otherwise are in
excess of the required balances. Provisions may be made in the Supplemental Indentures for the creation of
separate accounts within the funds
established under the Indenture or
Supplemental Indentures.
The proceeds from the sale of each
Series of Refunding Bonds are appropriated and shall be used for the purpose for which those Refunding
Bonds are issued as provided in this
Ordinance.
Section 6. Terms and Provisions
Applicable to the Refunding Bonds.
(a) Form; Exchange and Transfer.
All Refunding Bonds shall be issued
in fully registered form and may be
delivered in book-entry form. If delivered in book-entry form, Refunding
Bonds shall be registered in the name
of the Depository (as defined in the
Indenture) or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the
custody of the Depository, and shall
not be transferable or exchangeable
(except for transfer to another Depository or its nominee) without further
action by the City pursuant to the provisions of the Supplemental Indenture.
(b) Dates; Denominations. The
Refunding Bonds of each Series shall
be dated as of the date or dates provided in the Certificate of Award and
shall be issued in the denominations
permitted in the applicable Supplemental Indenture.
(c) Interest and Place of Payment.
The Refunding Bonds of each Series
shall bear interest at their respective
interest rates specified in the Certificate of Award (or, in the case of variable rate Refunding Bonds, determined pursuant to the Supplemental
Indenture). The Refunding Bonds of
the same Series and same maturity
may bear interest at different interest
rates. The Refunding Bonds of each
Series shall bear interest from the
most recent date to which interest has
been paid or duly provided for or, if no
interest has been paid or duly provided for, from their date. The principal
and any redemption premium and the
interest payable on each Refunding
Bond of a Series shall be payable at
the times, to the persons and in the
manner set forth in, or referenced by,
the applicable Supplemental Indenture, including, without limitation,
provisions thereof permitting special
arrangements for payments to the
Depository.
(d) Maturities. The Refunding
Bonds of each Series shall mature on
the dates and in the respective principal amounts provided in the Certificate of Award, consistent with this
Ordinance and the Indenture.
(e)
Optional
and
Mandatory
Redemption. The Refunding Bonds of
each Series may be subject to redemption prior to maturity at the option of
the City, if and to the extent provided
in the Certificate of Award. Any

1197

9
Refunding Bonds so determined to be
subject to optional redemption and
maturing by their stated terms after
the earliest optional redemption date
shall be subject to redemption at the
option of the City on or after the earliest optional redemption date in whole
or in part on any date at the redemption prices provided in the Certificate
of Award and in accordance with the
applicable Supplemental Indenture
and the Indenture. The Refunding
Bonds designated in the Certificate of
Award as term bonds subject to
mandatory sinking fund redemption
shall be redeemed prior to maturity
on each mandatory redemption date
designated in the Certificate of
Award in the aggregate amount of
the sinking fund installment to be
paid on such mandatory redemption
date, all as provided in the Certificate
of Award and in accordance with the
Supplemental Indenture.
(f) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. The Refunding Bonds of each
Series may be subject to purchase by
the City in lieu of optional redemption
if and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award and the applicable Supplemental Indenture.
(g) Execution. The Refunding
Bonds of each Series shall be signed
by the persons and in the manner set
forth in the Indenture.
(h) Numbering. The Refunding
Bonds of each Series shall be numbered as determined by the Director
of Finance.
Section 7. Authorization of Supplemental Indentures; Escrow Agreement.
In order to secure the payment of
the principal of and any premium and
interest on the Refunding Bonds, the
Mayor, Director of Finance and Director of Public Utilities, or any two of
them, are authorized to sign and
deliver to the Trustee, in trust for the
Original Purchasers and subsequent
holders of each Series of the Refunding Bonds, a Supplemental Indenture,
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, not inconsistent with this Ordinance, the Certificate of Award and
the Indenture and not substantially
adverse to the City as may be
approved by the officers signing the
same on behalf of the City. The determination by those officers that a Supplemental Indenture is not substantially adverse to the City shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing
and delivery of that Supplemental
Indenture by those officers. Subject to
the Original Indenture as theretofore
amended, any Supplemental Indenture may contain amendments to the
Original Indenture, as theretofore
amended, or amend and restate the
Original Indenture, to permit the City
to obtain a Credit Support Instrument
or to permit increased flexibility for
the use of financial or credit structures and techniques determined by
the Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
to be in the best interests of the City.
In order to cause the proceeds of
each Series of Refunding Bonds and
any funds of the City deposited in an
Escrow Fund to be invested as permitted under Section 9.02 of the Indenture so that the Refunded Bonds are
deemed paid and discharged, and in
order to cause the amount to be
deposited to be dedicated and applied
to the payment of the principal of and
interest and any redemption premium
on the Refunded Bonds as and when

10
due, to and including the applicable
redemption date, the Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver one or more Escrow Agreements between the City and the
Trustee as Escrow Agent, approved
as to form by the Director of Law, providing for the establishment of each
Escrow Fund as a trust fund in the
custody of the Trustee and for the
investment, dedication and application of the moneys deposited in the
accounts therein and further providing for the payment of the fees and
expenses of the Trustee for the performance of its duties as Escrow
Agent. Each Escrow Agreement shall
provide for the redemption of the
Refunded Bonds identified in the
applicable Certificate of Award to be
called for redemption prior to maturity and shall provide irrevocable
instruction to the Trustee to effect
such redemption in accordance with
the Indenture. The Director of
Finance is authorized to take such
other actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to accomplish the refunding of Refunded Bonds, including
without limitation, the retention of an
independent public accounting firm
to verify that the securities to be in an
Escrow Fund are of such maturities
or redemption dates and interest payment dates, and bear such interest, as
will be sufficient, together with any
cash in an Escrow Fund, for the payment of debt service on the Refunded
Bond to which the Escrow Fund
relates and to make any determinations required for the interest on the
Refunding Bonds to be excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes.
Section 8. Rebate Fund.
There is established and ordered to
be maintained a separate account for
each Series of Refunding Bonds that
are Tax-Exempt Obligations within
the Rebate Fund held in the custody
of the Trustee under the Indenture.
The Rebate Fund is not pledged to the
payment of debt service and is free
and clear of any pledge or lien given
under the Indenture as security for
the Refunding Bonds or the Outstanding Revenue Bonds. Calculations of
excess earnings that may be due and
payable to the federal government
pursuant to the Code and deposits to
those accounts of the Rebate Fund
shall be made as provided in the
applicable Supplemental Indenture.
Section 9. Remarketing.
In the event that the Director of
Finance determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that it is advantageous to the City to
convert the interest on any short-term
or variable rate Outstanding Revenue
Bonds or Refunding Bonds to fixed
interest rates for a period of time or to
maturity, or to convert the interest on
any short-term or variable rate Outstanding Revenue Bonds or Refunding Bonds to a different variable rate
period or mode, or to terminate or
take other actions with respect to any
existing Credit Support Instrument
that will require a tender and remarketing of any Outstanding Revenue
Bonds or Refunding Bonds under the
Indenture (any such conversion or
other action or tender or remarketing
being collectively referred to in this
Section as “remarketing”), the City
shall undertake the remarketing in
accordance with the Indenture. In
connection with any remarketing of
Bonds, the Director of Finance is

The City Record
authorized to take such actions that
she determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, will
facilitate the remarketing of the
Bonds or otherwise be in the best
interests of the City, including without limitation, obtaining one or more
Credit Support Instruments, terminating any Credit Support Instrument,
and entering into agreements with
one or more purchasers for their
direct purchase of the remarketed
Bonds in lieu of a public offering of
the Bonds by a remarketing agent. In
the event the Director of Finance
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that it
is necessary to supplement or amend
the Supplemental Indenture applicable to a Series of Bonds to be remarketed in order to address current market conditions or to permit the use of
or to terminate a Credit Support
Instrument
or
otherwise
obtain
financing arrangements advantageous to the City, the Mayor, the
Director of Finance and the Director
of Public Utilities, or any two of them,
are authorized to sign and deliver an
amendment of that Supplemental
Indenture, or an amended and restated Supplemental Indenture, approved
as to form by the Director of Law, subject to the Original Indenture as
theretofore amended.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized to satisfy any Debt Service Reserve Requirement or any special reserve fund requirement for the
Series of Bonds to be remarketed, by
the deposit of a Credit Support Instrument in lieu of cash, as permitted and
more specifically provided in the
Indenture, and to apply cash released
from the Debt Service Reserve Fund
or such special reserve fund to the
payment of costs of remarketing or
other purposes permitted by applicable laws. To the extent the costs of
remarketing are not paid from any
cash released from the Debt Service
Reserve Fund or such special reserve
fund, those costs shall be paid from
funds of the Water Division, which
are appropriated for that purpose.
The Director of Finance and the
Director of Public Utilities are authorized to prepare one or more disclosure documents in connection with
any remarketing of Bonds under the
same terms and conditions as set
forth in Section 14 of this Ordinance
with respect to the issuance of
Refunding Bonds. The Director of
Finance, the Director of Public Utilities or any other officer of the City, as
appropriate under the Charter, is
authorized to take such actions or
cause to be taken such actions as are
necessary to maintain the applicable
tax status of such Bonds, and the
covenants and authorizations in Section 12 of this Ordinance shall apply
to such Bonds. The Mayor, the Director of Finance, the Director of Public
Utilities and other City officials, as
appropriate under the Charter, are
authorized to sign and deliver such
instruments, certificates and documents as are necessary or appropriate
to consummate the transactions
authorized by this Section. The Director of Finance, the Director of Public
Utilities, the Director of Law and
other City officials, as appropriate
under the Charter, are authorized to
make the necessary arrangements on
behalf of the City to establish the
date, location, procedure and conditions for the remarketing of any

1198

August 27, 2014
Bonds and to take all actions necessary to effect the remarketing of any
Bonds under the terms of this Ordinance and the Indenture. The Clerk of
Council or other appropriate official
of the City shall furnish the Trustee a
true transcript of proceedings certified by the Clerk or other official, of
all proceedings had with reference to
the remarketing of any Bonds along
with such information for the records
as is necessary to determine the validity of the remarketing.
Section 10. Tender Offers. In connection with refinancing or restructuring any Outstanding Revenue
Bonds, the Director of Finance is
authorized to make a Tender Offer for
all or any portion of those Outstanding Revenue Bonds or all or any portion of any one or more maturities of
those Outstanding Revenue Bonds on
such terms as the Director of Finance
determines, in consultation with a
Financial Advisor, will result in debt
service savings to the City or the elimination or modification of covenants
that are unduly restrictive or a more
favorable debt service structure or
more favorable terms under Credit
Support Instruments or other advantages to the City. The purchase price
for the purchase of any Outstanding
Revenue Bonds tendered for purchase
in response to the Tender Offer shall
be paid from proceeds of Refunding
Bonds and any other funds of the City
available for the purpose. The Director of Finance is authorized to retain
the services of one or more firms to
serve as dealer manager, depository
and information agent in connection
with any Tender Offer and to pay the
fees and expenses of those firms from
proceeds of Refunding Bonds or other
funds of the City available for the purpose;
provided
the
Director
of
Finance determines that the firms so
retained
possess
the
requisite
resources and experience to provide
the services required of them and that
the terms on which the designated
parties have agreed to provide such
services are fair and commercially
reasonable. The Director of Finance
is authorized to prepare disclosure
documents relating to the terms and
conditions of the Tender Offer and
containing information about the City
and the Waterworks System and to
authorize the use and distribution of
those disclosure documents.
Section 11. Authorization of Hedging Arrangements.
This Council finds that by engaging in interest rate hedging arrangements with respect to Bonds the City
may reduce its cost of borrowing by
optimizing the relative amounts of its
fixed and variable rate obligations or
minimizing the risk of variations in
its debt service costs or obtaining savings by confirming rates of interest
on Bonds in advance of their issuance.
To permit the City to have the flexibility to undertake with respect to
Bonds interest rate swap, swaption,
rate cap, rate collar and other hedging transactions, from time to time,
and to establish the procedures for
approving those transactions, this
Council authorizes the signing and
delivery of one or more agreements,
including amendments or supplements to existing agreements (each,
a “Hedge Agreement”), and any related agreements necessary for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by each Hedge Agreement.
The authorizations in this Section are

August 27, 2014
supplemental to and not in derogation
of any authority provided by any
other ordinance of this Council concerning hedging arrangements.
Upon the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that it is to the financial advantage of
the City and in the City’s best interests that a hedging arrangement be
undertaken by the City with respect
to any Bonds issued or to be issued
under the Indenture, the Director of
Finance may authorize one or more
interest rate hedge transactions in
accordance
with
the
applicable
Hedge Agreement; provided that (a)
the counterparty shall be rated at the
time of signing the Hedge Agreement
not lower than “A” by at least one rating agency or its obligations under
the Hedge Agreement shall be guaranteed or insured by an entity rated
at the time of signing the Hedge
Agreement not lower than “A” by at
least one rating agency, with such
rating in either case determined without regard to a gradation by numerical or plus or minus or other modifier
and (b) the term of each hedge transaction shall not exceed the final maturity of the Bonds to which the hedge
relates.
The Director of Finance shall negotiate the terms of each Hedge Agreement with a counterparty satisfying
the credit criteria in this Ordinance.
The City shall receive a written opinion of a Financial Advisor that the
payments to be made by the counterparty to the City, or by the City to the
counterparty, shall be fair value for
the Hedge Agreement, considering,
among other things, the credit of the
City and the counterparty and the
terms and conditions of the Hedge
Agreement. The Director of Finance
shall determine the terms and conditions of the Hedge Agreement, including without limitation, the rates to be
paid by the counterparty to the City
and by the City to the counterparty
under the Hedge Agreement, the time
or times and procedures for the exercise by the counterparty or the City,
as the case may be, of any option
under the Hedge Agreement, and
whether the obligations of the City
under the Hedge Agreement shall be
secured by a Credit Support Instrument. The approval of each interest
rate hedge transaction by the Director of Finance shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing and delivery
of the applicable Hedge Agreement
by the Director of Finance.
The Director of Finance is authorized to terminate any Hedge Agreements in whole or in part or any Credit Support Instrument securing a
Hedge Agreement if the Director of
Finance determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that the City’s best interests will be
served by such termination. The
Director of Finance is further authorized to enter into amendments, novations, assignments or modifications
of a Hedge Agreement or any Credit
Support Instrument securing a Hedge
Agreement determined by the Director of Finance, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
the City’s best interests will be served
by such amendment or modification.
The City’s obligations under any
Hedge Agreement shall be payable
from the Net Revenues of the Utility
and may be payable also from other
funds permitted by law to be used for

The City Record
the purpose, as identified by the
Director of Finance in the Hedge
Agreement. Those payments may be
secured by a pledge of Net Revenues
that may be subordinate to the pledge
of Net Revenues for the Bonds, to the
extent permitted by the Indenture, all
as determined by the Director of
Finance and set forth in the Hedge
Agreement. The obligation of the City
to make payments under any Hedge
Agreement does not and shall not represent or constitute a general obligation, debt, bonded indebtedness or a
pledge of the faith and credit of the
City or the State of Ohio. Nothing
gives any party to any Hedge Agreement the right to have excises, ad valorem or other taxes levied by the City
or the State of Ohio for the payment of
any amounts due under any Hedge
Agreement.
Section 12. Covenants of the City.
The City, by issuance of each Series
of Refunding Bonds, covenants and
agrees with the Holders of that Series
of Refunding Bonds, that:
(a) The City will use the proceeds
of the Refunding Bonds for the purposes specified in Section 2.
(b) The Clerk, or other appropriate
officer of the City, will furnish to the
Original Purchasers and to the
Trustee a true transcript of proceedings, certified by the Clerk or other
officer, of all proceedings had with
reference to the issuance of the
Refunding Bonds, together with
information from the City’s records as
is necessary to determine the regularity and validity of the issuance of the
Refunding Bonds.
(c) The City will, at any and all
times, cause to be done all such further acts and things and cause to be
signed and delivered all further
instruments as may be necessary to
carry out the purpose of the Refunding Bonds and this Ordinance or as
may be required by Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio or the Charter of the City or the Indenture or the
applicable Supplemental Indenture
and will comply with all requirements of law applicable to the Waterworks System and the operation
thereof.
(d) The City will observe and perform all its agreements and obligations provided for in the Refunding
Bonds, this Ordinance, the Indenture
and each Supplemental Indenture. All
of the obligations under this Ordinance and the Indenture and each
Supplemental Indenture are hereby
established as duties specifically
enjoined by law and resulting from
an office, trust or station upon the
City within the meaning of Section
2731.01, Ohio Revised Code.
(e) The City will use, and will
restrict the use and investment of, the
proceeds of the Refunding Bonds that
are issued as Tax-Exempt Obligations in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the Refunding Bonds will not (i)
constitute private activity bonds,
arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds under
Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the Code or
(ii) be treated other than as bonds to
which Section 103(a) of the Code
applies, and (b) the interest thereon
will not be treated as an item of tax
preference under Section 57 of the
Code.
(f) The City covenants that (a) it
will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Refunding Bonds

1199

11
that are issued as Tax-Exempt Obligations to be and to remain excluded
from gross income for federal income
tax purposes, (b) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii)
restrict the yield on investment property acquired with those proceeds,
(iii) make timely rebate payments to
the federal government, (iv) maintain books and records and make calculations and reports, and (v) refrain
from certain uses of proceeds, and, as
applicable, of property financed with
such proceeds, all in such manner and
to the extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
Each covenant made in this section
with respect to the Refunding Bonds
is also made with respect to all issues
for which any portion of the debt service is paid from proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds (and, if different,
the original issue and any refunding
issues in a Series of refundings), to
the extent such compliance is necessary to assure exclusion of interest on
the Refunding Bonds that are issued
as Tax-Exempt Obligations from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes, and the Director of Finance,
or any other officer having responsibility with respect to the Refunding
Bonds, is authorized to take such
actions with respect to those issues as
they are authorized in this section to
take with respect to the Refunding
Bonds.
The Mayor, the Director of Finance
or any other officer of the City, as
appropriate under the Charter, is
authorized (a) to make or effect any
election,
selection,
designation,
choice, consent, approval or waiver on
behalf of the City with respect to the
Refunding Bonds as the City is permitted or required to make or give
under the federal income tax laws,
including, without limitation, any of
the elections available under Section
148 of the Code, for the purpose of
assuring, enhancing or protecting the
favorable tax treatment or status of
the Refunding Bonds that are issued
as Tax-Exempt Obligations or interest thereon or assisting compliance
with requirements for that purpose,
reducing the burden or expense of
compliance, reducing the rebate
amount or payments or penalties, or
making payments of special amounts
in lieu of making computations to
determine, or paying, excess earnings
as rebate, or obviating those amount
or payments, as determined by that
officer, (b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may be
appropriate to assure the exclusion of
interest from gross income and the
intended tax status of the Refunding
Bonds that are issued as Tax-Exempt
Obligations, and (c) to give one or
more appropriate certificates of the
City, for inclusion in the transcript of
proceedings for the Refunding Bonds,
setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City regarding the
amount and use of all the proceeds of
the Refunding Bonds, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and

12
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment or status of the Refunding
Bonds and interest thereon.
If the Director of Finance determines, based on the written advice of
a Financial Advisor, and so specifies
in the Certificate of Award that the
best interests of the City would be
served by issuing a Series of Refunding Bonds as Taxable Obligations,
then the tax-related covenants in this
Section shall not apply to or be
required to be made with respect to
the Refunding Bonds of that Series.
Section
13.
Ratings;
Credit
Enhancement.
If, in the judgment of the Director
of Finance, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, the filing of an application for a rating on
one or more Series of Outstanding
Revenue Bonds or Refunding Bonds
by one or more nationally recognized
rating agencies is in the best interests of the City, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare and
submit those applications and to provide to each such agency such information as may be required for the purpose. The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract for one or more
Credit Support Instruments for any
Series of Outstanding Revenue Bonds
or Refunding Bonds or designated
portions thereof if the Director determines, based on the written advice of
a Financial Advisor, that the Credit
Support Instruments will result in
debt service savings to the City, or
will stabilize interest rates on those
Bonds or will minimize the risk of
increased interest expense on those
Bonds. The Director of Finance is further authorized to terminate any such
contract if the Director of Finance
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
the City’s best interests will be served
by such termination. The cost of
obtaining each rating and the cost of
obtaining or terminating each Credit
Support Instrument, except to the
extent paid by the Original Purchasers in accordance with the Bond
Purchase Agreement, shall be paid
from the proceeds of Refunding
Bonds or funds of the Water Division,
which are appropriated for that purpose.
Section 14. Official Statements; Continuing Disclosure.
The Mayor, the Director of Finance,
the Director of Public Utilities, the
Commissioner of Water, or other City
officials, as appropriate under the
Charter, each is authorized, on behalf
of the City and in their official capacities, to (i) prepare or cause to be prepared, and make or authorize modifications, completions or changes of or
supplements to, disclosure documents
in the form of a preliminary official
statement relating to the issuance of
Refunding Bonds of one or more
Series, and (ii) determine, and certify
or otherwise represent, when each
preliminary official statement as so
prepared is a “deemed final” official
statement (except for permitted omissions) by the City as of its date for
purposes of Securities and Exchange
Commission
(“SEC”)
Rule
15c212(b)(1). The distribution and use of
one or more preliminary official statements are authorized and approved.
Those officers and each of them are
also authorized, on behalf of the City
and in their official capacities, as
appropriate under the Charter, to
complete each preliminary official
statement with such modifications,

The City Record
changes and supplements as those
officers shall approve or authorize for
the purpose of preparing and determining, and to certify or otherwise
represent, that the official statement
as so revised is a final official statement for purposes of SEC Rule 15c212(b) (3) and (4). Those officers each
are further authorized to use and distribute, or authorize the use and distribution of, one or more final official
statements and supplements thereto
in connection with the original
issuance of each Series of Refunding
Bonds as may, in their judgment, be
necessary or appropriate. Those officers each are further authorized to
sign and deliver, on behalf of the City
and in their official capacities, each
final official statement and such certificates regarding the accuracy of
each preliminary official statement
and each final official statement and
any amendments thereto as may, in
their judgment, also be necessary or
appropriate. The Director of Finance
is authorized to contract for services
for the production and distribution of
preliminary and final official statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
each Series of Refunding Bonds, the
City agrees, in accordance with, and
as an obligated person with respect to
the Refunding Bonds under, SEC Rule
15c2-12, to provide or cause to be provided such financial information and
operating data and notices, in such
manner, as may be required for purposes of SEC Rule 15c2-12. In order to
describe and specify certain terms of
the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for that purpose, and
thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement,
amendment and termination, the
Director of Finance and the Director
of Public Utilities are authorized to
prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
to sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate,
which shall constitute the continuing
disclosure agreement made by the
City for the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners of the Refunding
Bonds of that Series in accordance
with SEC Rule 15c2-12. The performance of that agreement shall be subject to the availability of funds and
their annual appropriation to meet
costs the City would be required to
incur to perform it.
Section 15. Authorization of Other
Documents.
Each of the Mayor, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Public Utilities and other City officials, as appropriate under the Charter, is authorized to sign and deliver such instruments, certificates and documents as
are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions authorized
by this Ordinance, the Bond Purchase
Agreements, the Supplemental Indentures, the Indenture, any Escrow
Agreements and any Hedge Agreements.
Each of the Mayor, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Public Utilities, the Director of Law and other
City officials, as appropriate under
the Charter, is authorized to make the
necessary arrangements on behalf of
the City to establish the date, location, procedure and conditions for the
delivery of each Series of Refunding
Bonds to the Original Purchasers and

1200

August 27, 2014
to take all actions necessary to effect
due signing, authentication and delivery of each Series of Refunding Bonds
under the terms of this Ordinance, the
Supplemental Indentures, the Bond
Purchase Agreements and the Indenture. The Clerk of Council or other
appropriate official of the City shall
furnish the Original Purchasers a
true transcript of proceedings certified by the Clerk or other official, of
all proceedings had with reference to
the issuance of each Series of Refunding Bonds along with such information for the records as is necessary to
determine the regularity and validity
of the issuance of those Refunding
Bonds.
The Director of Finance is also
authorized,
notwithstanding
any
other previously imposed limitations
on redemption provisions for such
Outstanding Revenue Bonds, to enter
into agreements with any holder of
any Outstanding Revenue Bonds to
extend, in consideration of payment,
the earliest optional redemption date
of those Bonds, provided that the
Director of Finance receives written
advice of a Financial Advisor that the
consideration being received by the
City fairly compensates the City for
such extension of the redemption
date. Any amounts received with
respect to such extensions shall be
deposited in the Additions and
Improvements Fund.
Section 16.  Lien of Pledge.
The Net Revenues of the Utility are
subject to the lien of the pledge under
the Indenture without any physical
delivery of the Net Revenues or further act, and the lien of such pledge is
valid and binding against all parties
having claims of any kind against the
City (irrespective of whether such
parties have notice of such pledge
and create a perfected security interest for all purposes of Chapter 1309,
Ohio Revised Code) without the
necessity for separation of delivery of
the Net Revenues or for the filing or
recording of the Indenture or any
other resolution or instrument by
which such pledge is created or any
certificate, statement or other document with respect to such pledge. The
pledge of the Net Revenues under the
Indenture shall be effective and the
money therefrom and thereof may be
applied to the purposes for which
pledged without necessity for any further act of appropriation.
Section 17. Other Provisions for
Payment of Outstanding Revenue
Bonds.
The City may, from time to time,
deposit funds, other than the proceeds
of Bonds issued for that purpose, in
trust with the Trustee under the
Indenture or an Escrow Agreement
for the payment of debt service
requirements on any Outstanding
Revenue Bonds if, in the judgment of
the Director of Finance and the Director of Public Utilities, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
doing so will improve the debt service
coverage ratio of the Waterworks
System (being the ratio of Net Revenues
to
Annual
Debt
Service
Requirements, as defined in the
Indenture). The Director of Finance
is authorized to make such deposits,
from time to time, from moneys in the
Additions and Improvements Fund
under the Indenture (Fund No. 52-300
of the Water Division) in amounts
that, in the aggregate, do not exceed
$75,000,000, with the actual amount of

August 27, 2014
any deposit to be determined by the
Director of Finance in consultation
with the Director of Public Utilities.
In order to cause any amounts so
deposited to be dedicated and applied
solely to the payment of the principal
of and interest and any redemption
premium on the designated Outstanding Revenue Bonds, as and when due
at maturity or upon prior redemption,
the Mayor, the Director of Finance
and the Director of Public Utilities, or
any two of them, are authorized, in
the name and on behalf of the City, to
sign and deliver one or more Escrow
Agreements approved as to form and
correctness by the Director of Law,
providing for the establishment of an
Escrow Fund as a trust fund in the
custody of the Trustee and the investment, dedication and application of
the moneys deposited therein and further providing for the payment to the
Trustee of fees and expenses for its
performance of its duties under the
Escrow Agreement. The officers signing the Escrow Agreement on behalf
of the City shall determine that the
agreement satisfies the requirements
of this Section, and that determination shall be conclusively evidenced
by the signing of the Escrow Agreement by those officers. The Mayor,
the Director of Finance and the Director of Public Utilities, or any two of
them, are authorized, in the name and
on behalf of the City, to sign and
deliver agreements, approved as to
form and correctness by the Director
of Law, with one or more institutions,
including agreements which will
enable the City to more efficiently
structure any escrow funds established pursuant to this Section, and
thereby maximize debt service savings and minimize negative arbitrage. The Director of Finance is
authorized to take such other actions
as may be necessary or appropriate to
accomplish any defeasance of the designated Outstanding Revenue Bonds
to be paid from any escrow fund,
including without limitation, the
retention of a firm of independent certified public accountants to verify
that the securities to be deposited in
escrow are of such maturities or
redemption dates, and interest payment dates, and bear such interest, as
will be sufficient, together with any
available moneys, for the payment of
debt service on the designated Outstanding Revenue Bonds.
Section 18. Financial Advisors and
Consultants.
The Director of Finance may obtain
the services of one or more Financial
Advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required by
this Ordinance to be determined by
the Director of Finance or to negotiate any Hedge Agreements. The
Director of Finance may rely on the
written advice of any Financial Advisor so retained. The Director of
Finance may obtain the services of
one or more feasibility consultants,
from time to time, to provide reports
in connection with the issuance and
sale of any Refunding Bonds or the
delivery of any Hedge Agreements
concerning the utilization and operation of the Utility, debt service coverage, rates and charges or other matters. Any Financial Advisor or consultant employed under the authority of
this Ordinance shall be disinterested
in the transaction and be independent
of the underwriters or counterparties

The City Record
and any other party interested in the
transaction.
Section 19. Appointment of Successor Trustee.
The Director of Finance is authorized to appoint a successor Trustee
in the event that the current Trustee,
U.S. Bank National Association, shall
resign or be removed, or be dissolved
or otherwise become incapable of acting as Trustee under the Indenture, or
in case it shall be taken under the control of any public officer or officers or
of a receiver appointed by a court, in
accordance with the provisions of Section 6.05 of the Original Indenture.
Section 20. Captions, Headings, and
Section References.
The captions and headings in this
Ordinance are solely for convenience
of reference and in no way define,
limit, or describe the scope or intent
of any Sections, subsections, paragraphs, subparagraphs, or clauses
hereof. Reference to a Section means
a section of this Ordinance unless otherwise indicated.
Section 21. Severability.
Each section of this Ordinance and
each subdivision or paragraph of any
section is hereby declared to be independent and the finding or holding of
any section or any subdivision or
paragraph of any section to be invalid
or void shall not be deemed or held to
affect the validity of any other section, subdivision or paragraph of this
Ordinance.
Section 22. Interpretation.
Any provisions of the Codified Ordinances of the City which are inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to the Refunding Bonds or matters authorized herein. Nothing in this Ordinance is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, certificates of
indebtedness,
other
obligations,
indentures or other agreements or
contracts made or entered into by the
City.
Section 23. Validity.
This Council finds and determines
that this Ordinance was passed in
compliance with all applicable provisions of the City’s Charter and the
rules of this Council. This Council further finds and determines that all acts
and conditions necessary to be done
or performed by the City or to have
been met precedent to and in the issuing of the Refunding Bonds in order
to make them legal, valid, and binding special obligations of the City
have been performed and have been
met, or will at the time of delivery of
the Refunding Bonds have been performed and have been met, in regular
and due form as required by law, and
that no limitation of indebtedness or
taxation, either statutory or constitutional, is applicable to the issuance of
the Refunding Bonds.
Section 24. Compliance with Open
Meeting Requirements.
This Council finds and determines
that all formal actions of this Council
and any of its committees concerning
and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken in an open
meeting of this Council or committees, and that all deliberations of this
Council and any of its committees
that resulted in those formal actions
were in meetings open to the public,
all in compliance with the law.

1201

13
Section 25. Sunset of Authorization.
The authority granted by Section 2
of this Ordinance to issue Refunding
Bonds shall expire three years from
the effective date of this Ordinance. If
a preliminary official statement with
respect to the Refunding Bonds is distributed under the authority of this
Ordinance at any time within the
three-year period following its effective date, then the authority granted
by Section 2 of this Ordinance shall
not expire as to those Refunding
Bonds. The Director of Finance shall
notify the Chairman of the Finance
Committee and the Clerk of this Council of the initiation of the issuance of
any Refunding Bonds under the
authority of this Ordinance.
Section 26. Emergency.
This Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all members elected
to Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its passage
and approval by the Mayor; otherwise
it shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 986-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into contracts with
Cuyahoga County and various nonprofit agencies for the implementation of homeless assistance activities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts with
Cuyahoga County and various nonprofit agencies for the implementation of homeless assistance activities.
Section 2. The aggregate cost of the
contracts authorized shall not exceed
$2,284,617, and shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 14 SF 039, 14 SF 040, 19 SF
661, and 19 SF 681, RQS 8006, RL 201494.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Development Planning and
Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 987-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more contracts with MCPc,
Inc. for professional services necessary to continue application updates
and improvements to the City’s network infrastructure, for a period of
one year, with a one-year option to
renew, exercisable by the Director of
Finance.

14
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with MCPc for
professional services necessary to
continue application updates and
improvements to the City’s network
infrastructure in the total sum of
$97,482.31, for the Department of
Finance, for a period of one year, with
a one-year options to renew. The first
of the one-year options to renew may
be exercised by the Director of
Finance, without the necessity of
obtaining additional authority of this
Council. The second of the one-year
options to renew may not be exercised
without additional legislative authority.
Section 2. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Finance may sign all
documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 3. That the contract or contracts shall be paid from Fund No. 11
SF 006, Request No. RQS 1511, RL
2014-99.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 988-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. 69444 with Dominion Products and Services, Inc. to develop,
market, implement, and manage a
Water and Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract and Protection Plan Program; and to amend the
contract to add the Water Heater
Repair and Replacement Plan as an
additional optional program made
available to customers.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 500-08, passed June 2,
2008, the Director of Public Utilities
entered into Contract No. 69444 with
Dominion Products and Services, Inc.
(“Dominion”) to develop, market,
implement, and manage a Water and
Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract and Protection Plan
Program (the “Program”) for the purpose of offering optional protection
plan and service contracts to water
and sewer residential customers to
cover emergency repairs to their
water service lines, sewer service
lines, and existing internal plumbing
facilities; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 500-08
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew on
this contract; and
Whereas, the Department of Public
Utilities and Dominion wish to amend

The City Record
Contract No. 69444 to add the Water
Heater Repair and Replacement Plan
as an additional optional program
made available to customers; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to exercise
the first option to renew Contract No.
69444 for an additional five-year period with Dominion to develop, market,
implement, and manage a Water and
Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract and Protection Plan
Program (the “Program”) for the purpose of offering optional protection
plan and service contracts to water
and sewer residential customers to
cover emergency repairs to their
water service lines, sewer service
lines, and existing internal plumbing
facilities.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
an amendment to Contract No. 69444
with Dominion to add the Water
Heater Repair and Replacement Plan
as an additional optional program
made available to customers.
Section 3. That the amendment to
Contract No. 69444 will be prepared by
the Director of Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 989-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts with
Cuyahoga Community College for
professional services necessary to
obtain and maintain required State of
Ohio certifications, and for other
related services and training, for the
Divisions of Police, Fire, and Emergency Medical Service, for a period up
to two years, with two one-year
options to renew, the first of which is
exercisable by additional legislative
authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Cuyahoga
Community College for professional
services necessary to conduct State of
Ohio Firefighter II, Emergency Medical Technician, and paramedic certifications, continuing education training necessary to maintain State of
Ohio Firefighter II, Emergency Medical Technician, and paramedic certifications, management and leadership training, and for other related
services and training, on the basis of
its proposal dated March 28, 2014, in
the approximate amount of $732,500,
for a period up to two years, with two

1202

August 27, 2014
one-year options to renew, for the
Divisions of Police, Fire, and Emergency Medical Service, Department of
Public Safety. The first of the oneyear options to renew may not be
exercised without additional legislative authority. If such additional legislative authority is granted and the
first of the one-year options to renew
is exercised, then the second of the
one-year options to renew may be
exercisable at the option of the Director of Public Safety, without the
necessity of obtaining additional
authority of this Council. The contract or contracts shall be paid from
funds appropriated in 2014 for this
purpose.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 990-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
lease certain property known as Arch
No. 6 of the Superior Viaduct to the
John G. Johnson Construction Company, or its designee, for the purpose of
providing employee parking and for
material storage, for a period of five
years, with one option to renew for an
additional five year period, exercisable by the Director of Capital Projects.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain property known as Arch
No. 6 of the Superior Viaduct, which is
not needed for the City’s public use;
and
Whereas, the John G. Johnson Construction Company, or its designee,
(the “Lessee”) has proposed to lease
the property from the City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Capital Projects
is authorized to lease to Lessee, certain property known as Arch No. 6 of
the Superior Viaduct, which is not
needed for the City’s public use, and is
more fully described as follows:
Superior Viaduct – Arch Number 6
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Sublots
Numbers 554, 555, and 563 through 568
both inclusive, as shown by the
recorded plat of the Buffalo Company’s Allotment of a part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot Numbers 51
and 70 in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 51 of
Cuyahoga County Records and being
about 117.5 feet in length and 80.00
feet wide and containing 7,265 square
feet of land;
Having excluded 2,135 square feet
of land within Pier Number 13 and the
Easterly one-half of Pier Number 14.

August 27, 2014
Section 2. That the term of the lease
authorized by this ordinance shall not
exceed five years, with one option to
renew for an additional five years,
exercisable by the Director of Capital
Projects.
Section 3. That the lease shall prohibit the storage of combustible noxious or volatile materials or liquids.
Section 4. That the property authorized by this ordinance shall be
leased at fair market value as determined by the Board of Control, exclusive of utilities.
Section 5. That the lease may authorize the Lessee to make improvements to the leased premises subject
to the approval of appropriate City
agencies and officials.
Section 6. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 7. That the Director of Capital Projects, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary
or appropriate to effect the lease
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
Ord. No. 991-14.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Polensek, Conwell, Pruitt, Brancatelli
(by
departmental
and
Kelley
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of rehabilitating and
replacing the Rockwell Avenue area
sewer, the Rosecliff Avenue area
sewer, and Massie Avenue area
sewer, including but not limited to
manholes and catch basins, and
authorizing the Director of Public
Utilities to enter into one or more public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it
is determined to make the public
improvement
rehabilitating
and
replacing the Rockwell Avenue area
sewer, the Rosecliff Avenue area
sewer, and Massie Avenue area
sewer, including but not limited to
manholes and catch basins, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, by one
or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the

The City Record
improvement, provided, however, that
each separate trade and each distinct
component part of the improvement
may be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract on a
unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement and other expenditures
authorized shall be paid from funds
appropriated in 2014 for these purposes.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Utilities, Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 992-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Human Resources
to employ one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants to
provide professional services for preemployment background and criminal checks for the Department of
Human Resources for a one year period, with a one-year option to renew,
exercisable by the Director of Human
Resources.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Human Resources is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one or
more consultants or one or more firms
of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to administer pre-employment background and criminal records checks;
and including but not limited to automated national wanted felon checks;
automated motor vehicle license and
points checks; automated workers’
compensation
checks;
automated
social security traces and automated
credit checks for the Department of
Human Resources, for a one year period, with a one-year option to renew,
exercisable by the Director of Human
Resources.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Human Resources
from a list of qualified consultants
available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Human
Resources for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be
paid for the services shall be fixed by
the Board of Control. The contract or

1203

15
contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Human
Resources, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from 01-0402-6320, RQS 0402, RL
2014-103.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 993-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
employ one or more professional consultants to provide a comprehensive
financial plan for the years 2016
through 2020, including but not limited to, cost- of-service studies, and rate
and fee analyses, for the various divisions of the Department of Public
Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to provide a comprehensive financial plan
for the years 2016 through 2020,
including but not limited to, cost- ofservice studies, and rate and fee
analyses, for the various divisions of
the Department of Public Utilities.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Utilities from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Utilities for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Utilities, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF 001, 54 SF
001, and 58 SF 001, RQS 2002, RL 2014102.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Utilities, Finance.

The City Record

16

August 27, 2014

Ord. No. 1030-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 543.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 1271-07, passed August 8, 2007, relating to sewerage service rates within Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the rates, rules, and regulations of the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for
sewerage services, fixed by the Board of Control by Resolution No. _____________, adopted ______________, are
approved.
Section 2. That Section 543.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
1271-07, passed August 8, 2007, is amended to read as follows:
Section 543.02 Sewerage Service Rates Within Cleveland
(a) Regular and Homestead Rates.
Sewer Rate Schedule
Regular Rates
Minimum Charge
1st MCF

$12.53
$12.53

Homestead Rates
Minimum Charge
1st MCF

$7.43
$7.43

(b) Special Homestead Rate. Homesteads that are single family residential property owned and occupied by a
person sixty-five (65) years of age or older whose total annual income does not exceed the limits listed below
or homesteads that are single family residential property owned and occupied by a person permanently and totally disabled whose total annual income does not exceed the limits listed below may be eligible for the special
homestead rate. The Director of Public Utilities shall prescribe the application form for the homestead rates and
have final approval of all applications.
Income Limits:
Year
2014
2015

Total Annual Income
$31,500
$32,000

(c) Fixed Charge Based Upon Meter Size

1/2" to 1"
1 1/2” to 2"
3" to 4"
6"
8"
12"

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

$12.00
$30.00
$99.00
$198.00
$300.00
$450.00

$12.00
$30.00
$99.00
$198.00
$300.00
$450.00

$15.00
$40.00
$115.00
$225.00
$325.00
$500.00

$15.00
$40.00
$115.00
$225.00
$325.00
$500.00

$18.00
$55.00
$140.00
$260.00
$370.00
$550.00

(d) The sewerage service charges within the City shall be increased to meet the funding requirements of the
Ohio Water Development Authority.
(e) Nothing contained in this section shall be held to authorize or require the payment of any sewer rental
charge by any tax-supported department of the City.
(f) All rates shall be effective on January 1 of each year.
Section 3. That Section 543.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
1271-07, passed August 8, 2007, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on Utilities, Finance.

Ord. No. 1059-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Zone.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Sections 670A.01 through 670A.10
relating to emergency police alarms
and to repeal Sections 670A.01
through 670A.07 and 670A.99, as
amended by various ordinances.

Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976 are hereby supplemented by
enacting
new
Sections
670A.01
through 610A10 to read, respectively,
as follows:

1204

Chapter 670A
Emergency Police Alarms
Section 670A.01 Purpose
The purpose of this article is to protect police emergency services of the
city from misuse and to encourage
alarm users and alarm businesses to
maintain the operational reliability
and the proper use of alarm systems
by limiting unnecessary police emergency responses.

August 27, 2014
Section 670A.02 Definitions
(a) “Alarm business” means the
business by any individual, partnership corporation, company, firm or
other entity, including any of its successors and assigns, of selling leasing, maintaining, servicing, repairing, altering, replacing, moving or
installing any alarm system or causing to be sold, leased, maintained, serviced, repaired, altered, replaced,
moved, or monitored any alarm system in or on any building, structure or
facility in the city, including residential structures or premises. Alarm
business includes an entity, its successors and assigns, other than the
alarm business, that is responsible for
monitoring an alarm system for the
alarm business and that alerts the
alarm business and the Division of
Police of an alarm system activation.
(b) “Alarm site” means the specific
property or area of the premises upon
or within which an alarm system is
located or is to be installed.
(c) “Residential property” means
any building or structure and its
premises used as a domicile or residence.
(d) “Business property” means any
building, structure or facility and its
premises used by a business, firm,
partnership, association, corporation,
organization or other entity and that
is not used as a domicile or residence.
(e) “Alarm system” means a device
or combination of devices designed
for the detection of an unauthorized
entry, an unlawful act, or an emergency on a premises, and which
device when activated gives a signal,
either visual, audible or both, or
transmits or causes to be transmitted
a signal that would reasonably be
expected to summon police or fire service of the city. Alarm system
includes systems that transmit the
signal or notification directly to the
Division of Police. Alarm system does
not include:
(1) such device installed on a motor
vehicle;
(2) any device or system designed
solely to detect or give notice of fire
or smoke;
(3) an alarm designed to alert only
inhabitants of a premises that does
not have a local alarm; and
(4) an alarm system or device
installed upon premises occupied by
the United States Government, the
State of Ohio, or any other governmental entity that is specifically
exempted from local control by state
or federal law.
(d) “Alarm user” means the person,
firm, partnership, association, corporation, organization or other or entity
of any kind who is in control of the
building, structure or facility where
the alarm system is maintained.
(f) “False alarm” means any alarm
system activation or signal that
alerts the Division of Police which is
not the result of an actual or threatened emergency requiring their
immediate response. False alarms
include negligently or accidentally
activated alarms or signals; alarms or
signals which are the result of faulty,
malfunctioning,
or
improperly
installed or maintained equipment;
and signals which are purposely activated to summon police or emergency
services in non-emergency situations.
Alarm activation caused by an act of
God, not including thunderstorms or
lightning, shall not be considered a
false alarm. Multiple occurrences due

The City Record
to equipment malfunction within a 24hour period of activity constituting
false alarms may be considered one
false alarm for the purposes of this
chapter.
(g) “Enhanced verification” means
at least two (2) calls made by the
alarm business to the alarm site or
the alarm user by telephone or other
electronic means, to determine if an
activated alarm is valid before the
alarm business requests response
from the Division of Police to the
alarm site.
(h) “Cancellation” means notifying
the Division of Police, after an alarm
dispatch request to respond to an activated alarm system, that police
response is not required and that the
alarm business is terminating such
request. If cancellation occurs prior
to police arrival at the alarm site, a
false alarm has not occurred for the
purposes of this chapter.
(i) “Registration year” means the
twelve (12) month period beginning
March 31st to the following March
31st of each calendar year.
(j) “Unique Identifying Number” or
“UIN” means the registration number
issued to an alarm business upon completed registration with the city.
(k) “Division of Police” means the
Division of Police of the Department
of Public Safety of the city.
(l) “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses of the city.
(m) “Person” means any individual,
partnership, corporation or other
legal entity.
Section 670A.03 Alarm Business
Registration Required; Fee; Penalty
(a) Every alarm business shall register with the Commissioner using
forms designated by the Commissioner for that purpose. The forms shall
include:
(1) the name, address, telephone
number and email address of the
alarm business, and whether the business is an individual, partnership or
corporation;
(2) a description of the alarm systems and devices and alarm related
services offered for sale or lease to
the public; and
(3) a complete list of all the alarm
business’ current alarm systems within city limits, including alarm user’s
name, business or organization, mailing address, alarm site and date of
activation (the “alarm system installation list”); alarm business shall
update the alarm system installation
list with any new alarm system
installation within 45 days of activation, which update shall include the
information required above.
(b) Every alarm business shall submit with its registration a statement
that all alarm equipment used in
installation of any alarm system
meets the applicable standards of the
Underwriters Laboratories of the
United States, Factory Mutual or the
National Fire Protection Association
or other recognized industry standard.
(c) Registration shall be accompanied by a certificate of insurance in
an amount as approved by the Director of Law.
(d) Alarm business registration is
non-transferrable.
(e) (1) Registration Fee for Alarm
Systems Installations per Residential
Property. The alarm business shall
pay a registration fee of Ten Dollars
($10.00) per alarm system installation

1205

17
at any residential property on the initial alarm system installation list.
Thereafter, the alarm business shall
be charged a fee of Ten Dollars
($10.00) per alarm system installation
at a residential property for any
newly installed alarm system updated to the list.
(2) Registration Fee for Alarm Systems Installations per Business Property.
The alarm business shall pay a registration fee of Twenty-Five Dollars
($25.00) per alarm system installation
at any business property on the alarm
system installation list. Thereafter,
the alarm business shall be charged a
fee of Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00)
per alarm system installation at any
business property for any newly
installed alarm system updated to the
list.
(f) Every alarm business shall reregister with the Commissioner no
later than March 31st of each calendar
year. Re-registration shall include an
updated alarm system installation
list. There is no fee for re-registration; however, the fees set forth in
division (e) (1) and (2) of this section
apply for any newly installed alarm
system added to the alarm system
installation list since the previous
registration date.
(g) No alarm business shall fail to
register, re-register or update the
alarm system installation list pursuant to this section. Any alarm business that fails to register, re-register
or update the alarm system installation list shall be assessed either (1)
Fifty Dollars ($50.00) per alarm system installation at a residential property on the alarm system installation
list and per alarm system installation
at a residential property that should
be added to such list; or (2) Sixty-Five
Dollars ($65.00) per alarm system
installation at any business property
on the alarm system installation list
and per alarm system installation at a
business property that should be
added to such list.
(h) Any alarm business that fails to
register pursuant to this section, but
that requests police response related
to an alarm system operated by that
alarm business, shall be assessed a
civil penalty of Two-Hundred and
Fifty Dollars ($250.00) for each police
response request in addition to any
other penalty imposed under this
chapter.
Section 670A.04 Receipt and Use of
UIN; Penalty
(a) Upon completed registration
and payment of the fee under section
670A.03, every alarm business shall
receive a Unique Identifying Number
(UIN) which shall be used by the
alarm business when calling the Division of Police to report alarm activation.
(b) Every alarm business is
required to use the UIN in addition to
the alarm site address when requesting a police response. Any alarm business that fails to provide a UIN to
police dispatch or the 911 call taker
when requesting police response
shall be assessed a civil penalty of
Fifty Dollars ($50.00.)
Section 670A.05 Alarm Business
Procedure; Penalty
(a) Every alarm business shall
give each alarm user a written
instruction manual and training on
proper operation and use of the alarm
system. Every alarm business shall

18
monitor the installed alarm system
and alarm user for repeat alarm activation, to determine the cause, correct
faulty equipment and train or re-train
the alarm user.
(b) Every alarm business representative shall wear identification on
their outermost garment bearing the
representative’s name and picture,
and the name of the alarm business
for which the representative is working.
(c) Every alarm business shall use
verification
prior
to
enhanced
requesting that police respond to an
alarm activation.
(d) Any alarm business that violates division (c) of this section shall
be fined a civil penalty of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for failure to
use enhanced verification. Each violation is a separate and chargeable
offense.
Section 670A.06 Alarm Dispatch
Records
The Division of Police shall record
and keep such information as necessary to maintain accurate records of
notifications of all alarm system activations to which the police respond.
Such information shall include, but is
not limited to:
(a) the alarm business and its UIN
number;
(b) address of the alarm site;
(c) date and time of notification;
(d) weather conditions;
(e) area of alarm site premises;
(f) name of alarm user;
(g) cause of alarm (criminal
offense, weather, false alarm, fire,
etc.)
Section 670A.07 Confidentiality
Because of the threat to public safety and the risk that such information
could be used for criminal action, and
to protect the privacy of those persons
affected by any provision of this chapter, all records kept by the city pursuant to this chapter shall be used
solely for the purpose of law enforcement, judicial proceedings and the
administration of this chapter and
shall not be released except under
direction of the Director of Law.
Section 670A.08 False Alarm Notifications; Service Fees
(a) Every alarm business shall be
responsible for multiple false alarms
sent by an alarm system located on
any alarm site or premises provided
in its alarm system installation list.
False alarm service fees shall be
imposed based on the number of false
alarms sent from one alarm site within a registration year.
(b) False Alarms –Alarm Systems
on Residential Property.
(1) On the first and second false
alarms within a registration year, no
fee shall be imposed; however, Director of Public Safety shall send written
notice to the alarm business and
alarm user advising of the number of
false alarms recorded for that alarm
user to date and the schedule of fees if
three or more false alarms occur during the remainder of the registration
year. Notice is deemed properly delivered by delivering it personally or
mailing it to the alarm business’
address on its registration and by
delivering it personally or mailing it
to the alarm site address listed on the
registration.
(2) On the third and fourth false
alarms within a registration year, a
fee of $50.00 shall be imposed for each
false alarm.

The City Record
(3) On the fifth, sixth and seventh
false alarms within a registration
year, a fee of $100 shall be imposed for
each false alarm.
(4) On the eighth, ninth and tenth
false alarm within a registration
year, a fee of $250 shall be imposed for
each false alarm.
(5) For each alarm after the tenth
false alarm within a registration
year, a fee of $500 shall be imposed for
each false alarm.
(c) False Alarms – Alarms Systems
on Business Property.
(1) On the first and second false
alarms within a registration year, no
fee shall be imposed; however, Director of Public Safety shall send written
notice to the alarm business and
alarm user advising of the number of
false alarms recorded for that alarm
user to date and the schedule of fees if
three or more false alarms occur during the remainder of the registration
year. Notice is deemed properly delivered by delivering it personally or
mailing it to the alarm business’
address on its registration and by
delivering it personally or mailing it
to the alarm site address listed on the
registration.
(2) On the third and subsequent
false alarms within a registration
year, a fee of One Hundred Thirty Dollars ($130.00) shall be imposed for
each false alarm.
(d) Payment of any fee assessed
under this section shall be made within thirty (30) days of the date of the
notice of fee assessment, unless the
alarm business has appealed the
assessment
pursuant
to
section
670A.09.
Section 670A.09 Appeals
(a) Any alarm business who has
been assessed service fees pursuant
to section 670A.09 may request, in
writing and within thirty (30) days of
the date of the notice of fee assessment, a hearing before the Chief of
Police or his or her designee for the
purpose of presenting evidence that
false alarms did not occur, or that the
alarm
business
was
incorrectly
assessed. After the Division of Police
has established a prima facie case
supporting the fee assessment, the
burden of proof shall shift to the
alarm business appealing the assessment. The rules of evidence shall not
be strictly applied.
If the Chief of Police or his or her
designee determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that a false
alarm or alarms did not occur, or that
the alarm business was incorrectly
assessed, then the charges shall be
voided; otherwise, the fees shall be
due and payable within ten (10) days
of the date of the determination.
(b) Any alarm business subject to
an adverse finding by the Chief of
Police or his or her designee pursuant
to division (a) may appeal the finding
to the Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals (the “Board”).
The notice of appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed with the Board
within ten (10) days of the finding of
the Chief of Police or his or her
designee. Upon scheduling of a Board
hearing on the matter, the Board shall
notify the appropriate member of
council in whose ward the false
alarms have occurred. The Board
shall approve, modify or annul the
finding from which the appeal is
taken; the decision of the Board shall
be final. Failure to pay any fees ultimately assessed may result in future
administrative action, including but

1206

August 27, 2014
not limited to, revocation of alarm
business registration.
Section 670A.10 Reports
(a) The Commissioner shall notify
and update as necessary the Division
of Police of all registered alarm businesses and their UINs, the alarm system installation lists of every registered alarm business, as well as any
other pertinent information necessary for the Division to keep records
pursuant to Section 670A.06
(b) The Director of Public Safety
shall file a report with the Clerk of
Council by May 15th of each year
which report shall indicate the number of false alarms that occurred in
the immediately previous registration year, the alarm sites of such false
alarms, and the name of the alarm
business that operates such alarm
system, and the amount of money
reimbursed to the City pursuant to
this chapter.
Section 2. That Sections 670A.01,
670A.04, through 670A.07 and 670A.99,
as amended by Ordinance No. 1585-90,
passed January 7, 1991, Section
670A.02, as amended by Ordinance No.
2393-02, passed February 3, 2003, and
Section 670A.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 220-11, passed March 28,
2011, are hereby repealed.
Section 3. The effective date of this
ordinance shall be March 31, 2015.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 1061-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into one or more agreements
with the Group Plan Commission for
the redevelopment of Public Square,
the construction of improvements to
Malls B and C, and the construction of
a pedestrian and bicycle bridge to
connect Mall C to the North Coast Harbor District; authorize the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to
acquire rights and interests in real
property; authorizing the director to
apply for and accept any gifts or
grants from any public or private
entity; and authorizing the Group
Plan Commission to sell the naming
rights within Public Square and
retain the proceeds of such sales for
the construction, management, operation, and programming of Public
Square, Malls B and C and the pedestrian and bicycle bridge.
Whereas, the Group Plan Commission was created to oversee the creation and implementation of a unified
vision to develop and link the City’s
signature public spaces, reshaping
the heart of our city, leveraging both
public and private investment and
new downtown development, and
paving the way for a more liveable
city as well as future growth; and
Whereas, the Group Plan Commission developed a plan to enhance connections to the lakefront and riverfront; elevate the value of urban

The City Record

August 27, 2014
design, public space, and public art;
and incorporate connections to existing signature developments; and
Whereas, the Group Plan Commission is moving forward with three
projects outlined in the plan, including the redevelopment of Public
Square, the construction of improvements to Malls B and C, and construction of a pedestrian bicycle bridge
connecting downtown and the lakefront; and
Whereas, the Group Plan Commission will work with the County of
Cuyahoga, Ohio, to construct a pedestrian and bicycle bridge to connect
the Mall C area to the North Coast
Harbor District; and
Whereas, the Group Plan Commission has requested that the City
authorize the Group Plan Commission
to obtain philanthropic and private
sponsorships and naming recognition
opportunities subject to City approval
within Public Square, Malls B and C,
and the pedestrian and bicycle bridge
and retain the proceeds of such opportunities for the redevelopment and
the maintenance, operation and programming of Public Square, Malls B
and C, and the pedestrian and bicycle
bridge; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of redevelopment
of Public Square, the construction of
improvements to Malls B and C and
the construction of a pedestrian and
bicycle bridge to connect Mall C to the
North Coast Harbor District, including the design, procurement, and construction (the “Improvement”), for
the Department of Public Works,
under one or more design-build or
engineer-procure-construct contracts
with the Group Plan Commission having submitted the best proposal, taking into consideration the engineering and design, the construction

method(s), the proposed design and
construction costs, the total life-cycle
costs, the qualifications of the proposed design professional(s) and construction firm(s), and the other objectives of the Improvement.
The Board of Control shall fix the
total compensation to be paid for all
design and construction and procurement necessary for the Improvement.
The contract or contracts shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Public
Works, and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 2. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies is authorized to purchase, lease, or otherwise acquire
easements, fee interests, licenses, permits and other rights or interests in
real property necessary for the
Improvement. The consideration to
be paid for the property shall not
exceed fair market value.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to execute on
behalf of the City all documents necessary to acquire rights or interests in
real property and to employ and pay
all fees for title companies, surveys,
escrows, appraisers, and other consultants and all other costs necessary for
the acquisition or use of the rights or
interests in the property.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
Group Plan Commission regarding
the
redevelopment,
construction,
operations, and programming of Public Square, which shall contain the
terms substantially that are in the
Term Sheet from the Group Plan Commission, File No. 1061-14-A. A copy of
the Definitive Agreement referenced
in the Term Sheet shall be deposited
in the file upon its execution.
Section 5. That subject to the
approval of the City Planning Commission and the Director of City Planning, the Group Plan Commission is

19
authorized to obtain philanthropic
and private sponsorships and naming
opportunities in the quadrants and
areas of Public Square, Malls B and C,
and the pedestrian and bicycle
bridge. Any funds obtained through
such naming opportunities shall
accrue to the Group Plan Commission
for use in the construction, maintenance, operation and programming of
Public Square, Malls B and C, and the
pedestrian and bicycle bridge.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to apply for
and accept any gifts or grants for this
purpose from any public or private
entity; and that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive any
gift or grant funds; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
described in this ordinance.
Section 7. That the Director of Public Works, with the approval of the
Director of Law, is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with
such parties as may be necessary or
appropriate to effectuate the purposes of this ordinance.
Section 8. That the cost to the City
for the Improvement and property
acquisition authorized in this ordinance shall not exceed $10,000,000 and
shall be paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited any gifts or grants
received under this ordinance and
from the fund or funds approved by
the Director of Finance.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Capital Projects, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and
Properties, Development Planning
and Sustainability, Finance.

FIRST READING ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 994-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance establishing new mapped setbacks on parcels located on the north side of Marquardt Avenue between
West 7th Street and West 5th Street as shown on the attached map (Map Change No. 2503).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the mapped building front setback of parcels fronting on the north side of Marquardt Avenue between
West 7th Street and West 5th Street is changed to 5 feet as shown on the attached map and further described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of West 7th Street at its intersection with the southwesterly prolongation of the centerline
of Marquardt Avenue;
Thence northwesterly along said centerline of West 7th Street to its intersection with a line drawn 5 feet northerly of
and parallel to the southeasterly line of Sublot Number 685 in the College Tract Subdivision shown on the recorded plat
in Volume 2, Page 32 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northeasterly along said parallel line to its intersection with the centerline of West 5th Street;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of West 5th Street to its intersection with the northeasterly prolongation
of southerly line of Sublot Number 719 in the aforementioned College Tract Subdivision;
Thence southwesterly along said prolongation of said southerly line and along its southwesterly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of West 7th Street;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of West 7th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Marquardt
Avenue and the principal place of beginning.
Section 2. That the change of zoning of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2503, and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

1207

20

The City Record

August 27, 2014

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on Development Planning and Sustainability.
Ord. No. 995-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance establishing new mapped setbacks on parcels located on the southeast corner of West 115th Street and
Lake Avenue as shown on the attached map (Map Change No. 2500).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the front setback of parcels fronting on Lake Avenue are changed to 45 feet and are further described
as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Lake Avenue at its intersection with the northerly prolongation the easterly line of a
parcel of land conveyed Cla Inc. by deed dated July 20, 1993 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number V93375490038; said
parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel 001-21-020;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said easterly line to a line drawn parallel to and 45 feet
southerly of the northerly line of the aforementioned Permanent Parcel Number 001-21-020;
Thence northwesterly along said parallel line to its intersection with the westerly line of a Parcel of land conveyed to
Cla Inc. by deed dated July 20, 1993 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number V93375490038; said parcel also being known
as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 001-21-019;
Thence northerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the northerly line thereof;
Thence southeasterly along said northerly line to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the easterly line
of the aforementioned Permanent Parcel Number 001-21-020;
Thence northerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the centerline of Lake Avenue and the principal place
of beginning;
Section 2. To apply a 6-foot mapped setback on a portion of the corner parcel on the southeast corner of West 115th
Street and Lake Avenue and further described as follows;
Beginning at the point of intersection of the easterly line of West 115th Street (50.00 feet wide) and southerly line of
Lake Avenue N.W. (100.00 feet wide).

1208

August 27, 2014

The City Record

21

Thence southerly along said easterly line of West 115th Street 100.00 feet to a point;
Thence easterly parallel with said southerly line of Lake Avenue N.W. and 6.00 feet perpendicular with said easterly
line of West 115th Street to a point;
Thence northerly parallel and 6 feet perpendicular with said easterly line of West 115th Street to its intersection with
the southerly line of said Lake Avenue N.W.;
Thence westerly along said southerly line of Lake Avenue N.W. to the point of beginning.
Section 3. To apply an 8-foot mapped setback on a portion of the corner parcel onto the parcel frontages on the easterly side of West 115th Street and further described as follows;
Beginning the in the point of intersection of the easterly line of West 115th Street and the southerly line of a parcel of
land conveyed to William G. Costakis by deed dated March 21, 1994 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number V94427080013
said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 001-21-065;
Thence southeasterly along said southerly line of the aforementioned Permanent Parcel Number 001-21-065 to its intersection with a line drawn 8 feet from and parallel to the easterly line of West 115th Street;
Thence northerly along said parallel line to a line that is 100 feet southerly of and parallel to the southerly line of Lake
Avenue;
Thence westerly along said parallel line to its intersection with the easterly line of West 115th Street;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the principal place of beginning.
Section 4. That the change of zoning of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2500, and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 5. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on Development Planning and Sustainability.
Ord. No. 996-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance removing the existing mapped front setbacks on parcels located on the north side of Clifton Boulevard
between West 117th Street and West 116th Street and parcels fronting on West 117th Street as well as West 116th Street
north of Clifton Boulevard as shown on the attached map (Map Change No. 2497).

1209

22

The City Record

August 27, 2014

Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the 5-foot and 10-foot existing mapped front setbacks on parcels bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the center of Clifton Boulevard at its intersection with the centerline of West 117th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of West 117th Street to its intersection with the northwesterly prolongation of
the southerly line of Sublot Number 18 in the Cook and Faerber Re-Subdivision shown on the recorded Plat in Volume 32,
Page 18 of Cuyahoga County Map Records hereafter known as the principal place of beginning;
Thence southwesterly along said northwesterly prolongation of said southerly line and along its southeasterly prolongation to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot Number 20 in the aforementioned Cook and Faerber Re-Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said easterly line and along its northerly prolongation to its
intersection with the northerly line of Sublot Number 17 in the aforementioned Cook and Faerber Re-Subdivision;
Thence northwesterly along said northerly line and along its northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the
westerly line of Sublot Number 7 in the aforementioned Cook and Faerber Re-Subdivision;
Thence southerly along said westerly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the southerly
line of Sublot Number 18 in the aforementioned Cook and Faerber Re-Subdivision and the principal place of beginning;
and as outlined on the attached map are hereby removed from the Building Zone maps.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2497, and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on Development Planning and Sustainability.
Ord. No. 997-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the zoning of parcels located on the southeast corner of West 115th Street and Lake Avenue
from 1F-A1 to RA2-2 Townhouse (Map Change No. 2499).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of parcels bounded and describe as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of West 115th Street at its intersection with the centerline of Lake Avenue;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of Lake Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Cla Inc. by deed dated July 20, 1993 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number
V93375490038; said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 001-21-020;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line
thereof;
Thence northwesterly along said southerly line and along its northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of West 115th Street;

1210

August 27, 2014

The City Record

23

Thence northerly along said centerline of West 115th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Lake Avenue and
the principal place of beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map are changed to a Residential Attached 2 Townhouse District and a ‘2’ Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2499, and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on Development Planning and Sustainability.
Ord. No. 998-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use and Area Districts of parcels on the south side of Lake Avenue west of Clifton Boulevard from an ‘A’ Area District and a One Family Residential District to an RA2 Residential Attached Townhouse District (Map Change No. 2498).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of Lake Avenue and Clifton Boulevard;
Thence westerly along the centerline of Lake Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot No. 77 in the Edgewater Land Company Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 109, Page 9
of the Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line thereof;
Thence westerly along said southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line Sublot No. 76 in said allotment;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line thereof;
Thence westerly along said southerly line and its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the westerly line of
Sublot No. 75 in said allotment;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Lake
Ave;
Thence easterly along the centerline of Lake Ave to the place of origin;
and as shaded on the attached map are changed to a Residential Attached 2 Townhouse District.
Section 2. That the change of zoning of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2498, and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

1211

The City Record

24

August 27, 2014

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on Development Planning and Sustainability.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 1031-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of West
21st Street (12.00 feet wide) and a portion of Moore Avenue N.W. (66.00 feet
wide).
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of West 21st Street (12.00 feet
wide) and a portion of Moore Avenue
N.W. (66.00 feet wide), as described;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
A portion of West 21th Street
(12.00 feet wide)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and being all that remaining portion
of West 21st Street (12.00 feet wide)
vacated by ordinance 382-58 passed 217-1958 extending from the north line
of Moore Avenue N.W. (66.00 feet
wide) northerly to the easterly prolongation of the north line of Gould
Court N.W. (16.5 feet wide).

A portion of Moore Avenue N.W.
(66.00 feet wide)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and being all that portion of Moore
Avenue N.W. (66.00 feet wide) extending from that portion of Moore
Avenue N.W. (66.00 feet wide) vacated by ordinance 2031-97 passed April
6th 1998 to the west line of West 20th
Street (66.00 feet wide).
Legal Descriptions approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 999-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of reconstructing West
73rd Street and Father Frascati Drive;
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to enter into one or more public improvement contracts for the

1212

making of the improvement; authorizing one or more contracts with
C.W.Courtney Company to design the
improvement; authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
to acquire for right-of-way purposes
real property; authorizing the Director to apply for and accept gifts and
grants from any public or private
entity, to accept cash contributions,
and to enter into any agreements to
implement the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of reconstructing
West 73rd Street from Detroit Avenue
to Father Frascati Drive and Father
Frascati Drive from West 73rd Street
to West 70th Street (the “Improvement”), for the Department of Capital
Projects, by one or more contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding on a unit
basis for the Improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
the Improvement may be treated as a

August 27, 2014
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with C.W.
Courtney Company for professional
services necessary to design the
Improvement, in an amount not to
exceed $245,000, for the Department of
Capital Projects.
Section 5. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire for right-of-way purposes
such real property as is necessary to
make the Improvement. The consideration to be paid for the property shall
not exceed fair market value.
Section 6. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City all documents
necessary to acquire the property and
to employ and pay all fees for title
companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers, review appraisers, and all other
costs necessary for the acquisition of
the property.
Section 7. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply for
and accept any gifts or grants for this
purpose from any public or private
entity; and that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive any
funds or services; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
described in this ordinance.
Section 8. That, when appropriate,
the Director of Capital Projects is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts the Greater Cleveland
Regional Transit Authority and the
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District and other entities to obtain services or to acquire property rights
such as easements and licenses, necessary to construct the improvements
described in this ordinance.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects, when necessary, is
authorized to cause payment to the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority, the NEORSD, or any other
entities for payment of any services
which were necessary to construct
the Improvement described in this
ordinance.
Section 10. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept a
cash contribution from public or private entities for the improvement.
That the Director of Capital Projects
is authorized to enter into agreements
with the entities for this purpose and
to cause payment for those purposes.
Section 11. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with private utility companies to pay charges
for the design and installation of
underground lines in connection with
the improvement.
Section 12. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into any agreements necessary to
implement the Improvement.
Section 13. That the cost of the
Improvement, contracts, property

The City Record
acquisition, or other expenditure
authorized in this ordinance shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF
528, 20 SF 534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20
SF 554, 20 SF 563, from the fund or
funds to which are credited any cash
contribution, payment, grant, or gift
accepted under this ordinance, and
any funds approved by the Director of
Finance for this purpose.
Section 14. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1000-14.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Pruitt and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of repairing the autotransformer located at the Lake Road
Substation; and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of repairing the
autotransformer located at the Lake
Road Substation, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities, by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding for a gross price for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
the improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract for a gross price. On
request of the director, the contractor
shall furnish a correct schedule of
unit prices, including profit and overhead, for all items constituting units
of the improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement and other expenditures
authorized shall be paid from Fund
No. 58 SF 230, RQS 2004, RL 2014-93.

1213

25
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1001-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request)
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 8 of Ordinance No. 265-14,
passed March 17, 2014, relating to
applying for and accepting a grant
from the U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services for the Moms
First Program and authorizing contracts in connection with the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 8 of Ordinance No. 265-14, passed March 17,
2014, is amended to read as follows:
Section 8. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under
this ordinance and from Fund No. 015005-6320, RQS 5005, RL 2014-96.
Section 2. That existing Section 8 of
Ordinance No. 265-14, passed March 17,
2014, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1026-14.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with The Centers for
Families and Children for the Fathers
and Families Together Program
through the use of Ward 9 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into an agreement with The Centers
for Families and Children for the
Fathers and Families Together Program for the public purpose of promoting effective parenting skills in

26
the city of Cleveland among fathers
and parents to develop healthy interactions with their children through
the use of Ward 9 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $10,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1027-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with Go Media or with its
fiscal agent Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization
for the Weapons of Mass Creation
Program through the use of Ward 15
Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement effective August 6,
2014 with Go Media or with its fiscal
agent Detroit Shoreway Community
Development Organization for the
Weapons of Mass Creation Program
for the public purpose of providing
educational workshops on entrepreneurship to Cleveland small businesses through the use of Ward 15 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $5,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1028-14.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Economic Development to enter into
an agreement with Mac’s Sports Grill
LLC
for
exterior
landscaping
improvements to the property to promote economic development through
the use of Ward 1 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Economic Development is hereby authorized to enter
into an agreement with Mac’s Sports
Grill LLC for exterior landscaping
improvements to the property for the
public purpose of promoting economic
development and new job creation
through the use of Ward 1 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Section 2 That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $5,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1029-14.
By Council Members Reed, Cimperman, K. Johnson, Cleveland, Mitchell,
Dow, Polensek, Conwell, Brady, Brancatelli, Kelley, Cummins, Sweeney
and Keane.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with Summer on the
Cuyahoga for the Summer Student
Internship Program through the use
of Wards 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14,
16, and 17 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into an agreement with Summer on
the Cuyahoga for the Summer Student
Internship Program for the public
purpose of providing summer job
internships to Cleveland college students and attract new residents to the
city through the use of Wards 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, and 17 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $21,500 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.

1214

August 27, 2014
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1060-14.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
enter into one or more agreements
with the Ohio Department of Transportation regarding ODOT’s improvement of constructing the West 25th
Street Bridge, to among other things,
allow ODOT to make the public
improvement of constructing landscape medians within the roadway
approaches; and to cause payment to
ODOT for the improvement.
Whereas, the Ohio Department of
Transportation (“ODOT”) is making
the public improvement of constructing the West 25th Street Bridge over
Interstate 71, PID 83488, in the City of
Cleveland (“ODOT Improvement”);
and
Whereas, the roadway approaches
to the West 25th Street Bridge are
located within the City of Cleveland:
and
Whereas, the City desires to construct landscape medians within the
roadway approaches of the ODOT
Improvement; and
Whereas, the construction of the
landscape medians are not within the
scope of the ODOT Improvement and
are at the request of the City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with ODOT
regarding the ODOT Improvement to,
among other things, allow ODOT to
make the public improvement of constructing landscape medians within
the roadway approaches while ODOT
is constructing the ODOT Improvement.
Section 2. That this Council authorizes payment to ODOT for the construction of landscape medians within the roadway approaches which is
located in the City of Cleveland from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF
534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, and
20 SF 563.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

August 27, 2014
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1062-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for The Rock n Roll Half
Marathon, on October 11, 2014, sponsored by Competitor Group.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
The Rock n Roll Half Marathon, on
October 11, 2014, start: Erieside an Al
Lernerway; Erieside east to East 9th,
East 9th south to Lakeside, Lakeside
east to East 20th, East 20th south to
St. Clair, St Clair west to East 18th,
East18th south to Euclid, Euclid west
to East Roadway, East roadway
north to West Mall Drive, West Mall
Drive north to St Clair, St Clair east to
East 6th, East 6th north to Lakeside,
Lakeside west to West 9th, West 9th
north to Front, Front west to West
10th, West 10th south to Robert Lockwood, Robert Lockwood south to
Columbus, Columbus west to West,
West north to Merwin, Merwin west to
Center, Center north to Riverbed,
Riverbed east to Elm, Elm north to
Main, Main west to West 25th, West
25th south to Detroit, Detroit west to
West 65th, West 65th south to West
Clinton, West Clinton east to West
58th, West 58th south to Franklin,
Franklin east to West 25th, CROSS
over West 25th to Franklin Hill,
Franklin Hill east to Carter, Carter
east to Scranton, Scranton south to
Kenilworth, Kenilworth east to West
14th, West 14th south to Starkweather, Starkweather east to West 11th,
West 11th north to University, University west to West 13th , West 13th
south to Abby, Abby west to West
19th, West 19th north to West 20th,
West 20th south to Hope Memorial
Bridge, RUNNERS on sidewalk of
bridge, Bridge east to Ontario,
Ontario north to Huron, Huron west to
Superior, Superior east to West 3rd an
FINISH LINE, provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary in
order to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and all
liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1063-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for The Susan G. Komen Race
for the Cure, on September 13, 2014,
managed by Hermes Sports & Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
The Susan G. Komen Race for the
Core, on September 13, 2014, start:
Lakeside & East 6th; Lakeside west to
West 3rd, West 3rd south to St Clair,
St Clair east to east 9th, East 9th
south to Carnegie, Carnegie east to
East 18th, East 18th north to Lakeside, Lakeside west to FINISH at East
6th, provided that the applicant sponsor shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order to
protect the participants in the event.
Said permit shall further provide that
the City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability
resulting from the issuance of the
same, to the extent and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1064-14.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the St. Rocco 5K Run, on
August 30, 2014, sponsored by St.
Rocco Festival Committee.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the St. Rocco 5K Run, on August 30,
2014, start: Fulton & St Rocco Court;
Fulton Rd south to Storer Ave, Storer
Ave west to West 61th, , West 61th
north to Clark Ave, Clark Ave east to
Fulton Rd, Fulton Rd south to St
Rocco Court, provided that the applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police and

1215

27
safety forces as may be necessary in
order to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and all
liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1002-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 6501 Denison Avenue, and repealing Resolution
No. 1052-13, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to Hanini 7 Oil, Inc., DBA West 65
Gas USA, 6501 Denison Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number
3571080 by Resolution No. 1052-13,
adopted by the Council on August 14,
2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit
to Hanini 7 Oil, Inc., DBA West 65 Gas
USA, 6501 Denison Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44102,
Permanent
Number
3571080, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 105213, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1003-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to 2920 Detroit
Avenue and patio.

28
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit
from Bop Stop Promotions, LLC, 2920
Detroit Avenue and patio, Cleveland,
Ohio
44113,
Permanent
Number
0833430 to Cleveland Music School Settlement, 2920 Detroit Avenue and
patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 1547505; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit from Bop Stop Promotions, LLC,
2920 Detroit Avenue and patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number
0833430 to Cleveland Music School Settlement, 2920 Detroit Avenue and
patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 1547505; and requests
the Superintendent of Liquor Control
to set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

The City Record
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1004-14.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 1417-23 East 21st Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
3693706 owned by Hayes Development
Group, LLC, DBA Mardi Gras, 1417-23
East 21st Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44114, and requests the Superintendent of the Division of Liquor Control
to set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Superintendent of the Division
of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1005-14.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 3600
East 116th Street and repealing Resolution No. 937-13, objecting to said
renewal.

1216

August 27, 2014
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit to Tuz, Inc., 3600 East 116th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number 9115172 by Resolution
No. 937-13, adopted by the Council on
July 10, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of C2 and C2X Liquor Permit
to Tuz, Inc., 3600 East 116th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 9115172, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
937-13, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1006-14.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of location of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to 4096 East 131st
Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of location of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit
from Sophie T. Inc., DBA Imperial
Deli & Beverage, 12301-03 Imperial
Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 9120790 to Rauhi Rahman,
4096 East 131st Street, Cleveland, Ohio
Permanent
Number
44105,
72040040010; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with

August 27, 2014
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
location of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit from Sophie T. Inc., DBA Imperial
Deli & Beverage, 12301-03 Imperial
Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 9120790 to Rauhi Rahman,
4096 East 131st Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44105,
Permanent
Number
72040040010; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1007-14.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to 910 East
185th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit
from Niju Investments, LLC, 910 East
185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119,
Permanent Number 63817750050 to
Petro Energy Northeast, Inc., 910 East
185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119,
Permanent Number 6857042; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to

The City Record
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit from Niju Investments, LLC, 910
East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44119, Permanent Number 63817750050
to Petro Energy Northeast, Inc., 910
East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44119, Permanent Number 6857042;
and requests the Superintendent of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1008-14.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at 770 East 185th Street and
repealing Resolution No. 1624-13,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit to Uptown Ultra
Lounge, LLC, 770 East 185th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent No.
9170570 by Resolution No. 1624-13
adopted by the Council on November
25, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and

1217

29
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit to Uptown Ultra
Lounge, LLC, 770 East 185th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent No.
9170570, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 162413, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1009-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D2,
D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to
850 Euclid Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit from Liffey Enterprises, Inc., DBA Black Dog Kitchen and
Bar, 850 Euclid Avenue, 1st floor,
Suite 120, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number 5196623 to Cleveland
Beverage, LLC, 850 Euclid Avenue,
1st floor, Suite 120 Cleveland, Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
15432800005; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

30
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit from Liffey Enterprises, Inc., DBA Black Dog Kitchen
and Bar, 850 Euclid Avenue, 1st floor,
Suite 120, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number 5196623 to Cleveland
Beverage, LLC, 850 Euclid Avenue,
1st floor, Suite 120 Cleveland, Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
15432800005; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1010-14.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of location of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit to 18029 Euclid
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of location of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit
from Struga, Inc., DBA Sin Nite Club,
1296 West 6th Street and patios, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number
8651505 to Blueprint, LLC, 18029
Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112,
Permanent Number 0765919; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of

The City Record
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
location of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit
from Struga, Inc., DBA Sin Nite Club,
1296 West 6th Street and patios, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number
8651505 to Blueprint, LLC, 18029
Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112,
Permanent Number 0765919; and
requests the Superintendent of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1011-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 5105
Franklin Boulevard.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for a New C1 Liquor
Permit at Habibi Market, Inc., 5105
Franklin Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent Number 3479137;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to

1218

August 27, 2014
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Habibi Market, Inc.,
5105 Franklin Boulevard, Cleveland,
Ohio
44102,
Permanent
Number
3479137; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1012-14.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit at
3578 Independence Road and repealing Resolution No. 1204-13, objecting
to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor Permit to Above The Best
Entertainment, LLC, 3578 Independence Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent No. 0029341 by Resolution
No. 1204-13 adopted by the Council on
September 16, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,

August 27, 2014
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit to Above The Best Entertainment, LLC, 3578 Independence Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent No.
0029341, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 120413, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1013-14.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D2 and D2X Liquor Permit at 9203
Kinsman Avenue and repealing Resolution No. 938-13, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D2 and D2X Liquor
Permit to Ossie, Inc., DBA Kinsman’s
Shell, 9203 Kinsman Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number
6591675 by Resolution No. 938-13,
adopted by the Council on July 10,
2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D2 and D2X Liquor Permit to Ossie, Inc., DBA Kinsman’s
Shell, 9203 Kinsman Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number
6591675, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 938-13,
containing such objection, be and the
same is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.

The City Record
Res. No. 1014-14.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit at
7038 Linwood Avenue and repealing
Resolution No 1625-12, objecting to
said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit to Annette Green, DBA
Green’s Linwood Deli, 7038 Linwood
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent No. 33502090005 by Resolution
No. 1625-12 adopted by the Council on
November 19, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor
Permit to Annette Green, DBA
Green’s Linwood Deli, 7038 Linwood
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent No. 33502090005, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1625-12, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1015-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to 4506 Lorain
Avenue, 1st floor.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit
from Kadri, Inc., 4606 Lorain Avenue,
1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number 4433114 to Lorain
Avenue Super Mercabo, Inc., DBA
Ohio City Mini Mart, 4506 Lorain
Avenue, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent Number 5262570;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to

1219

31
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit from Kadri, Inc., 4606 Lorain
Avenue, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent Number 4433114 to
Lorain Avenue Super Mercabo, Inc.,
DBA Ohio City Mini Mart, 4506 Lorain
Avenue, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent Number 5262570;
and requests the Superintendent of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1016-14.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit
at 6101 Memphis Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for

32
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.5830264
owned by Memphis Station, LLC, DBA
Memphis Station, 6101 Memphis
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44144, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Superintendent of the Division
of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1017-14.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at
12301 Miles Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 946-13, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit to Jake, Jr. & Lucille
Morrison, DBA Jake’s Lounge, 12301
Miles Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 6180959 by Resolution No. 94613, adopted by the Council on July 10,
2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit to Jake, Jr. & Lucille
Morrison, DBA Jake’s Lounge, 12301
Miles Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 6180959, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
946-13, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1018-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 1222 Prospect Avenue, 1st
floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
15721860001 owned by Club Center
Lounge, Inc., DBA Xecutive Lounge,
1222 Prospect Avenue, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the

1220

August 27, 2014
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Superintendent of the Division
of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1019-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 75 Public Square, Suite B-100
and repealing Resolution No. 917-13,
objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit to Underground
Entertainment, Inc., DBA Underground, 75 Public Square, Suite B-100,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 9148958 by Resolution No. 91713, adopted by the Council on July 10,
2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit to Underground Entertainment, Inc., DBA Underground, 75
Public Square, Suite B-100, Cleveland,
Ohio
44113,
Permanent
Number
9148958, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 917-13,
containing such objection, be and the
same is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeand
diately
upon
its
adoption
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1020-14.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit at 3837 Ridge
Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and

August 27, 2014
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit,
Permit No.7366153 owned by Ridge
Road Castle 3837, Inc., 3837 Ridge
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44144, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Superintendent of the Division
of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1021-14.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit at
5510 St. Clair Avenue and repealing
Resolution No 566-14, objecting to said
transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit to AS & KS, Inc., DBA
St. Clair BP, 5510 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent No.
0006566, by Resolution No. 566-14
adopted by the Council on April 28,
2014; and

The City Record
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of location of a C1 Liquor
Permit to AS & KS, Inc., DBA St. Clair
BP, 5510 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44103, Permanent No. 0006566, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 566-14, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1022-14.
By Council Member Dow
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A
and D6 Liquor Permit at 3610 Superior
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 8736351 owned by
Sweethearts Café, Inc., 3610 Superior
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.

1221

33
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Superintendent of the Division
of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1023-14.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New D5J Liquor Permit at 15802
Waterloo Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for a New D5J Liquor
Permit at Upper Room Entertainment, LLC, 15802 Waterloo Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent
Number 9169100; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

34
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New D5J
Liquor Permit at Upper Room Entertainment, LLC, 15802 Waterloo Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent
Number 9169100; and requests the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1024-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 1261-65 West 6th Street, 1st
floor and patio.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
9330015 owned by W. 6th Restaurant
Group, Ltd., DBA Barley House Cleveland, 1261-65 West 6th Street, 1st floor
and patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a

The City Record
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Superintendent of the Division
of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeand
diately
upon
its
adoption
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1025-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Kelley.
An emergency resolution recognizing September as Childhood Cancer
Awareness Month.
Whereas, the American Cancer
Fund for Children and Kids Cancer
Connection report that cancer is the
leading cause of death by disease
among U.S. children between infancy
and age 15; and
Whereas, cancer is detected in more
than 15,000 of America’s young people
each year; and
Whereas, one in five of our nation’s
children loses his or her battle with
cancer; many infants, children and
teens will suffer from long-term
effects of comprehensive treatment,
including secondary cancers; and
Whereas, founded over 20 years ago
by Steven Firestein, a member of the
philanthropic Max Factor family, the
American Cancer Fund for Children,
Inc. and Kids Cancer Connection, Inc.
are dedicated to helping children
with cancer and their families; and
Whereas, the American Cancer
Fund for Children and Kids Cancer
Connection provide a variety of vital
patient psychosocial services to children undergoing cancer treatment at
Cleveland Clinic Children’s Hospital
and Rainbow Babies and Children’s
Hospital in Cleveland, as well as participating hospitals throughout the
country, thereby enhancing the quality of life for these children and their
families; and
Whereas, the American Cancer
Fund for Children and Kids Cancer
Connection also sponsor nationwide
Courageous Kid recognition award
ceremonies and hospital celebrations
in honor of a child’s determination
and bravery to fight the battle
against childhood cancer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
recognizes September as Childhood
Cancer Awareness Month.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to forward copies
of this resolution to the American
Cancer Fund for Children, Inc. and
Kids Cancer Connection, Inc.

1222

August 27, 2014
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1057-14.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a C1, C2 and D6
Liquor Permit at 18314 Euclid
Avenue, Unit D, and repealing Resolution No. 885-14, objecting to said
transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of liquor license of a C1,
C2 and D6 Liquor Permit to Rida, Inc.,
DBA Green Lite Beverage & Liquor,
Unit D, 18314 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permanent No.
73626610001, by Resolution No. 885-14
adopted by the Council on July 16,
2014; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1, C2
and D6 Liquor Permit to Rida, Inc.,
DBA Green Lite Beverage and Liquor,
Unit D, 18314 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permanent No.
73626610001, be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 88514, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1058-14.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1, D2 and D6
Liquor Permit at 7910 Harvard
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of

August 27, 2014
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit
No. 7274254 owned by Reham Food
Mart, Inc., DBA Clark Oil, 7910 Harvard Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
and requests the Superintendent of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Superintendent of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1065-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution declaring
that the City of Cleveland recognizes
the benefits of a diet high in fruits
and vegetables, and urging residents
to participate in “Meatless Mondays”
to improve their health and decrease
their carbon footprint.
Whereas, “Meatless Monday,” is a
non-profit initiative associated with
the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School
of Public Health that encourages people to try food alternatives other than
meat at least one day a week; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland and
Cleveland City Council are committed
to improving the health of its citizens
in every neighborhood, and are implementing Healthy Cleveland Standards to improve nutrition with
access to fruits and vegetables; and

The City Record
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
passed a resolution promoting the
adoption of the Healthy Cleveland
Nutrition Guidelines, aimed to help
guide public agencies to increase the
amounts of nutritious foods served,
thus improving the health and wellness of Cleveland residents; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
demonstrated commitment to environmental stewardship by establishing
the Mayor’s Office of Sustainability,
and through Sustainable Cleveland
2019 is facilitating helpful programs
to reduce energy costs and greenhouse gas emissions, while enjoying
local food and community potlucks;
and
Whereas, the Greater Cleveland
Food Bank is promoting Meatless
Mondays in its kitchen, by serving
over 7000 nutrient rich meatless
meals each week to low-income children and seniors; and
Whereas, recent reports released by
the Center for Disease Control show
75% of Ohioans not meeting the daily
recommended intake of five servings
of fruits and vegetables each day,
contributing to Ohio’s placement as
the 13th  most obese state with over
30% of Ohio adults being considered
obese (BMI >30); and
Whereas, data provided by Case
Western’s
Reserve’s
Prevention
Research Center (PRC) indicates
that more than one third of Cleveland
adults are suffering from high blood
pressure (34.8%), and one in eight
Cleveland adults are fighting diabetes (12.4%); and
Whereas, diverse vegetarian meals
centered around veggies, fruits,
whole grains, and plant protein
sources, contain fiber, a nutrient that
knocks out hunger and protects
against several diseases; and
Whereas, Cleveland Clinic heart
doctors and nutritionists at the Wellness Institute recommend eating
more meatless meals to protect heart
health and lower the incidence and
severity of chronic illnesses; and
Whereas, studies published in Science Daily show that high rates of
fruit and vegetable consumption promote longevity and lower mortality
rates; and
Whereas,
livestock
production
emits a significant share of greenhouse gases to the atmosphere in the
form of methane from cattle, nitrous
oxide from fields growing feed-crops,
deforestation for grazing/feed-crops,
and other excessive fossil fuel inputs;
corresponding studies published in
Science Daily show a vegan diet contributes least to greenhouse gas emissions, but that even modest adjustments to reduce the amount of animalbased foods we eat lowers carbon
footprint significantly; and 
Whereas, the City recognizes that it
may be easier for residents to eat
more meatless meals than it would be
to drive less or reduce energy use in
other ways; and
Whereas, it takes  approximately
1,850 gallons of water to produce a
single pound of beef, but only 39 gallons to produce a pound of vegetables;
and
Whereas,
less
water-intensive,
plant-strong agriculture and eating
habits support resiliency to climate
change while limiting the likelihood
of animal manure polluting our fresh
water and causing algae blooms that
create aquatic dead zones; and
Whereas, farmed animals are largely fed GMO crops that are chemical

1223

35
dependent; Environmental Working  Group estimates that growing
livestock feed in the U.S. alone
requires 167 million pounds of pesticides and 17 billion pounds of nitrogen fertilizer each year across some
149 million acres of cropland; and
Whereas, the city of Cleveland
expresses thanks to farmers for feeding the community and supports
efforts that promote responsible land
use practices and preserve crop diversity; and
Whereas, over ninety percent of
animal foods come from factory farm
style production where animals live
out short lives in stressful confinement, endure various forms of mutilation, and the unhealthy smelly conditions have resulted in the overuse of
antibiotics; and
Whereas, the Humane Society of
the US estimates that one billion animals could be spared the experience
on factory farms if Americans ate
meatless meals on Mondays; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares that the City of Cleveland
recognizes the benefits of a diet high
in fruits and vegetables, and urges
residents to participate in “Meatless
Mondays” to improve their health and
decrease their carbon footprint.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1066-14.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 Liquor Permit
at 10808 Dove Avenue, 1st floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,

36
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
6503136 owned by Ocean, Inc., 10808
Dove Avenue, 1st floor, Cleveland,
Ohio 44105, and requests the Superintendent of the Division of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Superintendent of the Division
of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1067-14.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 Liquor Permit
at 3643 East 116th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of

The City Record
a C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
4948435 owned by Kwick Food Corporation, 3743 East 116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and requests the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Superintendent of the Division
of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1068-14.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit
at 3705 East 116th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7171120 owned by Rahi, Inc., 3705 East
116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
and requests the Superintendent of
the Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.

1224

August 27, 2014
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Superintendent of the Division
of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 463-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a HUD
108 Empowerment Zone loan from the
United States Department of Housing
and Urban Development to partially
finance the tenant build-out portion of
the overall redevelopment of the Victory Building located at 7012 Euclid
Avenue and other associated costs
necessary to redevelop the properties;
and authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into one
or more agreements with Victory Midtown, LLC, or its designee, for the project.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Passage recommended by Committees on Development, Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 720-14.
By Council Members Cleveland, K.
Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property to the Northeast Ohio Regional
Sewer District; and authorizing the
Director of Public Works to execute
deeds of easement and temporary
deeds of easement granting to Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District certain easement rights in property
bounded by Kinsman Road, East 79th
Street, Greater Cleveland Regional
Transit Authority railroad, and the
Norfolk Southern railroad for the
Sewer District’s Green Ambassador –
Urban Agriculture Green Infrastructure Project; and declaring the easement and property rights no longer
needed for the City’s use.

August 27, 2014
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and
Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 721-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors Public Utilities and
Public Works to execute deeds of
easement granting to the Northeast
Ohio Regional Sewer District certain
easement rights in portions of a Cityowned property located on Henninger
Road and Wildlife Way, a City-owned
undedicated roadway, and declaring
the easement rights no longer needed
for the City’s use.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Public Works, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 799-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
(by
departmental
and
Kelley
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio
Environmental
Protection
Agency for the 2014 Litter Clean Up
and Tire Amnesty Program; and
authorizing the Director to enter into
one or more contracts with the Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District and
with various agencies, entities, or
individuals to implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Passage recommended by
Committees on Municipal Services
and
Properties,
Finance,
when
amended, as follows:
1. In Section 2, line 3, after “rewritten,” insert “including the obligation
of the City of Cleveland to provide
cash matching funds in the amount of
$4,445.00, payable from Fund No. 017011-6397,”; and in line 4, at the end
after the period insert “(RQS 7011, RL
2014-89)”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 829-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Cuyahoga County Board of Health for
the 2015 Immunization Action Plan
Program; authorizing the Director to
charge and accept fees for this program; and authorizing one or more

The City Record
agreements with Medicaid and Medicaid HMOs for the City to receive payments.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Passage recommended
by Committees on Health and Human
Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 830-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
Cuyahoga County Solid Waste Management District for the 2015 Solid
Waste Disposal Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 831-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more contracts with
BIG Wireless, LLC for professional
services necessary to provide Level 3
support and maintenance on communication links between buildings and
towers having existing point-to-point
links, and for remote monitoring,
spare or replacement parts and equipment, hardware upgrades, and labor
if necessary, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of one year.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

37
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 843-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli, Kelley and Cimperman
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
final consent of the City of Cleveland
to the State of Ohio for the removal
and replacement of the Canal Road
Bridge; authorizing the Director of
Capital Projects to enter into contracts with the State of Ohio; and
causing payment to the State of Ohio
for the City’s share of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 844-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
execute a deed of easement and a temporary deed of easement granting to
Cuyahoga County certain easement
rights in property located on East
49th Street and declaring the easement rights not needed for the City’s
public use.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Planning Development and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 836-14.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to WSCH, LLC to
encroach into the public right-of-way
of 3000 Bridge Avenue N.W. by
installing, using, and maintaining an
entry-area ADA ramp and stair.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 845-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more contracts with
Employee Benefits International for
professional services necessary to
continue to evaluate the internal
operational procedures and administrative processes for the City of Cleveland Self-Insured Employee Healthcare Benefits Plan, including the
evaluation of the policies and procedures involving the City of Cleveland
Prisoner Healthcare administration.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 838-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to exercise the third option to renew Contract No. MA 1511 RC2010-118 with
Software House International to provide Microsoft licenses for the various
divisions of City government.

Ord. No. 846-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into one or more Leases By Way of Concession with the
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization, the Cleveland

1225

38
Public Theatre, and the Near West
Theater, Inc., or their designees, for
maintaining and operating surface
parking lots at various locations
within the Gordon Square Parking
Master Plan, for a period of twenty
years.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 847-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
lease certain property known as the
Oxbow Building located at 1283
Riverbed Street to Downtown Cleveland Alliance for the purpose of providing community space for residents
and stakeholders, docks for Flotsam
and Jetsam, and a secondary office
space for Flats Forward Inc., for a
term of five years, with two five year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Public Works.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Planning Development and Sustainability, Finance,
when amended, as follows:
1. In the title, strike the last line in
its entirety and insert: “the first of
which is exercisable through additional legislative authority.”.
2. In Section 2, lines 2 and 3,
strike “, exercisable by the Director
of Public Works” and insert: “The
first of the five-year options to
renew may not be exercised without
If
additional legislative authority.
such additional legislative authority
is granted and the first of the fiveyear options to renew is exercised,
then the second of the five-year
options to renew may be exercisable
at the option of the Director of Public Works, without the necessity of
obtaining additional authority of
this Council.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 849-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more

The City Record
requirement contracts of disposal of
debris at landfills, for the Divisions of
Water, Cleveland Public Power, and
Water Pollution Control, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period of two
years, with two one-year options to
renew, the first of which requires
additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

August 27, 2014
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
execute a deed of easement granting
to the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company certain easement rights
in property at 1935 East 101st Street
located under the service drive of Fire
Station No. 10, and declaring that the
easement rights granted are not needed for the City’s public use.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 850-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
types of valves, actuators, and appurtenances, and labor and materials
necessary to service, repair, replace,
exercise, test, and maintain various
types of valves, actuators, and appurtenances, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two years, with two one-year
options to renew, the first of which is
exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 853-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1593-13, passed January 13,
2014, relating to one or more contracts
with Debt Next, LLC to assist various
departments with improving its
accounts receivables management.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 851-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
execute one or more deeds of easement granting to the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company and its
affiliated company, American Transmission Systems, Incorporated, and
The Greater Cleveland Regional
Transit Authority certain easement
rights in a portion of Ambler Park,
and declaring that the easement
rights granted are not needed for the
City’s public use.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

SECOND READING
ORDINANCES PASSED

Ord. No. 852-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).

Ord. No. 857-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 405.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1543-12,
passed December 3, 2012, to increase
towing fees for impounded vehicles.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1435-13.
By Council Members Cummins,
Zone and Cimperman.
An ordinance changing the Use District of lands located on the north and
south sides of Clark Avenue Between
Train Avenue and W. 41st Street from
Semi-Industry to General Retail Business (Map Change No. 2464).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1604-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance changing the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands on the north side of Lorain at the Lorain
Carnegie Bridge between Columbus Road and West 17th Street to Local Retail Business or Multi-Family District,
a ‘K’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District, or a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height District (Map Change No.
2462).
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on City Planning, Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. Strike Sections 1 through 5 in their entirety and insert the following new Sections 1 through 7:
“Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Lorain-Carnegie Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of Columbus Road;

1226

August 27, 2014

The City Record

39

Thence northerly along said centerline of Columbus Road to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of
the southerly line of Parcel ‘B’ of the Lot Split plat recorded in Volume 361, Pages 26-33 of Cuyahoga County
Map Records;
Thence northeasterly along said southerly line to its intersection with a westerly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly ling to its intersection with a southwesterly line thereof;
Thence southwesterly along said southwesterly line to its intersection with a westerly line thereof;
Thence southerly and easterly and southerly again along said westerly line to its intersection with the southerly most line of the aforementioned Parcel ‘B’;
Thence easterly along said southerly line to its intersection with an easterly line thereof;
Thence northerly along said easterly line to its intersection the westerly prolongation of the northerly terminus of West 19th Street;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said terminus to its intersection with the northerly line
of vacated Grove Court (vacated by Ordinance No. 1022-89; effective date June 12, 1989);
Thence northeasterly along said northerly line of Grove Court to its intersection with the northwesterly prolongation of the southwesterly line of Sublot No. 104 in the Averell & Bradford’s Grove Allotment Shown on the
recorded plat in Volume 6, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 004-02-006);
Thence southeasterly along said southwesterly line and along its southeasterly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of the Lorain – Carnegie Bridge;
Thence southwesterly along said centerline of the Lorain Carnegie Bridge and along its southwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Columbus Road and the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local-Retail District, a ‘K’ Area
District and a ‘3’ Height District.
Section 2. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of West 17th Street at its intersection Carnegie Avenue (also known as Lorain
Carnegie Bridge);
Thence northwesterly along said centerline of West 17th Street to its intersection with the southeasterly line
of the Averell & Bradford’s Grove Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 6, Page 4;
Thence northeasterly along said southeasterly line to its intersection with the southwesterly line of Parcel ‘B’
of the Lot Split plat recorded in Volume 361, Pages 26-33 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 004-26-008);
Thence in a general northwesterly direction along said southwesterly line to its intersection with the northeasterly prolongation of the northwesterly line of vacated Grove Court (vacated by Ordinance No. 1022-89; effective date June 12, 1989);
Thence southwesterly along said northeasterly prolongation and said northwesterly line to its intersection with
the southwesterly line of Sublot No. 107 in the Averell & Bradford’s Grove Alltoment shown the recorded plat in
Volume 6, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 004-02-002);
Thence southeasterly along said southwesterly line and along its southeasterly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of Lorain Avenue;
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Lorain Avenue to its intersection with the northeasterly prolongation of the centerline of West 17th Street;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of W. 17th Street to its intersection with the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Multi-Family Residential, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height
District.
Section 3. That the Use, Height and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Carnegie Avenue (also known as Lorain Carnegie Bridge) at its intersection
with the southeasterly prolongation of the northeasterly line of Sublot No. 43 in the Averell & Bradford’s Grove
Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 4, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 004-02-017);
Thence northwesterly along said southeasterly prolongation and said northeasterly line to its intersection with
the northwesterly line thereof;
Thence northeasterly along said northwesterly line to its intersection with the northeasterly line of Sublot No.
42 in the aforementioned Averell & Bradford’s Grove Allotment;
Thence northwesterly along said northeasterly line to its intersection with the northwesterly line thereof also
known as the northwesterly line of the aforementioned Averell & Bradford’s Allotment;
Thence southwesterly along said northwesterly line to its intersection with the centerline of West 17th Street;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of West 17th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Carnegie
Avenue (also known as Lorain Carnegie Bridge);
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Carnegie Avenue (also known as Lorain Carnegie Bridge) to its
intersection with the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Multi-Family District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height
District
Section 4. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Lorain Avenue at its intersection with the northwesterly prolongation of the centerline of West 17th Street;
Thence northwesterly along said northerly prolongation of the centerline of West 17th Street to its intersection
with the southeasterly line of the Averell and Bradford’s Grove Allotment shown on the recorded Plat in Volume
6, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northeasterly along said southeasterly line to its intersection with the southerly line Parcel ‘B’ of the
Lot Split Plat recorded in Volume 361, Pages 26-33 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 004-26-008);
Thence in a general northeasterly direction along said southerly line to its intersection with northwesterly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to Earl L. Walker by deed dated December 11, 1990 and recorded in Auditor’s File
Number V90076370026 said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 004-02-110;
Thence southwesterly along said northwesterly line and along its southwesterly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of West 17th Street;
Thence northwesterly along said centerline of West 17th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Lorain
Avenue and the principal place of beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to an Open Space and Recreation District.
Section 5. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:

1227

40

The City Record

August 27, 2014

Beginning in the centerline of Lorain Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of Columbus Rd.;
Thence northerly along said centerline of Columbus Rd. to its intersection with the southerly line of the Cuyahoga River;
Thence easterly and northeasterly along said southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Carter Peninsula Inc. by Deed dated May 27, 1988 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number
V88824260051l (PPN 004-28-001);
Thence southerly along said westerly line to its intersection with a southerly line thereof;
Thence northeasterly and southeasterly along said southerly line and along its southeasterly prolongation to
its intersection with the centerline of Carnegie Avenue (also known as the Lorain Carnegie Bridge);
Thence southwesterly along said centerline to its intersection with the southeasterly prolongation of the northeasterly line of Sublot No. 43 in the Averell & Bradford’s Grove Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume
4, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northwesterly along said southeasterly prolongation and said northeasterly line to its intersection with
the northwesterly line thereof;
Thence northeasterly along said northwesterly line to its intersection with the southerly line of Parcel ‘B’ of
the Lot Split plat recorded in Volume 361, Pages 26-33 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 004-26-008);
Thence continuing in a general northwesterly and then a general southwesterly direction along said southerly
line to its intersection with an easterly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly most line of the aforementioned
Parcel ‘B’;
Thence westerly along said southerly most line to its intersection with a westerly line thereof;
Thence northerly, northeasterly and northerly again along said westerly line to its intersection with a southerly line thereof;
Thence southwesterly along said southerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Columbus Road;
Thence southerly along said centerline of Columbus Road to its intersection with the centerline of Lorain Avenue
and the principal place of beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District, a ‘K’ Area District and a ‘1’
Height District
Section 6. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 through 5 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2462, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 7. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.
2. Strike the existing map and insert the following new map:

1228

The City Record

August 27, 2014

41

Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16. Nays
0.
In compliance with Section 33 of the Charter a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member of Council before final passage.

SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 892-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Zone, Cimperman, Brady, Polensek
and J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution establishing a working committee to study the
effectiveness of Trap-Neuter-Return
and Return to Field Community Cat
city services and community education to decrease free-roaming cat populations in Cleveland’s neighborhoods and create a safe, healthy, and
humane community for cats and people alike.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
MOTION
On the motion of
Keane, the absence
ber Kevin Conwell
rized. Seconded by
Brady.

Council Member
of Council Memis hereby authoCouncil Member

The Council Meeting adjourned at
2:20 p.m. to meet at the call of the
Chair in the Council Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

August 20, 2014
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, August 20,
2014 at 10:35 a.m. with Director
Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Acting Director Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Interim Director
O’Leary.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla and Nichols.
Natoya
Walker
Minor,
Others:
Interim Director, Office of Equal
Opportunity.
Tiffany
White,
Commissioner,
Division of Purchases & Supplies.

On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 390-14.
By Director Dumas.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 530-14, passed May 12,
2014, and Board of Control Resolution No. 373-14, adopted August 13,
2014, the City, through its Director
of Finance, approved the award of
a contract to Interstate Safety & Service Co., for an estimated quantity
of various building materials and
supplies, for the various divisions of
City government, Group A, items 2a4a, and 4h in the estimated amount
of $787,045.00; and
Whereas, Resolution No. 373-14
incorrectly stated the items in Group
A recommended for contract; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 373-14, adopted by
this Board on August 13, 2014, is
amended by substituting “Group A,
items 2a-2b, 3, and 4g (no. 304),” for
“Group A, items 2a-4a and 4h,” where
appearing in the resolution, and by
decreasing the contract amount to
$62,045.00.
Be it further resolved that all
other terms of Resolution No. 373-14
not expressly amended by this resolution shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Acting Director Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Interim Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla and Nichols.
Resolution No. 391-14.
By Director Dumas.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 530-14, passed May 12,
2014, and Board of Control Resolution No. 374-14, adopted August 13,
2014, the City, through its Director
of Finance, approved the award of
a contract to Bruder, Inc., for an
estimated quantity of various building materials and supplies, for the
various divisions of City government, Group A, items 1a-3, 5a-6b, 8a8f, and Group B, items 1a-6, 8-9, 11,
14, 16-21, 23-25, 27, 29, 34, 39-44, 47,
48, and 52-56; and
Whereas, Resolution No. 374-14
incorrectly stated the items in Group
A and Group B recommended for
contract; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 374-14, adopted by
this Board on August 13, 2014, is
amended by substituting “Group A,
items 1a, 1b, 5a-6b, 8a-8f, 8h-8z, 8bb9, 12a, 12b, 14a-14b, and 15a, 15, and
16,” and “Group B, items 1-6, 8-9, 11,
14, 16-21, 23-25, 27, 29, 34, 39-44, 47,
48,
and
52-56,”
respectively
for
“Group A, items 1a-3, 5a-6b, 8a-8f,”
and “Group B, items 1a-6, 8-9, 11, 14,
16-21, 23-25, 27, 29, 34, 39-44, 47, 48,
and 52-56,” where appearing in the
resolution.

1229

Be it further resolved that all
other terms of Resolution No. 374-14
not expressly amended by this resolution shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Acting Director Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Interim Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla and Nichols.
Resolution No. 392-14.
By Director Dumas.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 530-14, passed May 12,
2014, and Board of Control Resolution No. 375-14, adopted August 13,
2014, the City, through its Director
of Finance, approved the award of
a contract to Erie Materials Inc., for
an estimated quantity of various
building materials and supplies, for
the various divisions of City government, Group A, items 4b-4g; and
Whereas, Resolution No. 375-14
incorrectly stated the items in Group
A recommended for contract; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 375-14, adopted by
this Board on August 13, 2014, is
amended by substituting “Group A,
items 4a-4f (nos. 1, 57, 67, 10, 8 and
9), and 20,” for “Group A, items 4b4g,” where appearing in the resolution.
Be it further resolved that all
other terms of Resolution No. 375-14
not expressly amended by this resolution shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Acting Director Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Interim Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla and Nichols.
Resolution No. 393-14.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that under
Section 101 of the Charter, Section
181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, and Resolution
No. 921-52, adopted by the Board of
Control on November 26, 1952, the
report of the report of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for
the sale of scrap, personal property,
and by-products during the month of
July,
2014
in
the
amount
of
$94,601.36, attached and made a part
of
this
resolution
is
received,
approved and ordered filed.
Directors
Langhenry,
Yeas:
Dumas, Acting Director Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Interim Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla and Nichols.

42
Resolution No. 394-14.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of System Engineering International LLC dba Critical Power
USA for an estimated quantity of
labor and materials for maintenance
of uninterruptible power supply systems, appurtenances, and specialized batteries, Group 1-all items and
Group 2-all items, for the various
Divisions of the Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two
years starting upon the later of the
execution of a contract or the day
following expiration of the currently effective contract for the goods
or
services,
with
two
one-year
options to renew, received on June
5, 2014 under the authority of Ordinance No. 675-13, passed May 20,
2013, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
(0%,
30
Days),
is
$206,495.00
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services necessary for
the specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
may
be
as
estimated
quantity,
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Acting Director Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Interim Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla and Nichols.
Resolution No. 395-14.
By Director Smith.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of B. P. Britches, Inc. d/b/a Christopher’s for an estimated quantity of
employee
uniforms
and
related
items, Bid Items 1(A), (B), (C), (E),
(F), (G), (H), (I), (J), (M), (N) (Q),
(R), (S), (T), (U), (V), 2(B), (C),
(D), (F), 4(A), (B), (D), (E), 5(B),
(G), (J), (L), (M), (N), (O), (P),
6(A) and (7) for the various divisions of the Department of Port Control, for a period of one year beginning with the date of execution of
a contract, with one one-year option
to renew, received on May 22, 2014,
under
the
authority
of
Section
181.101(a)(25) of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity
would
amount
to
$104,322.00, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Port Control is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services
specified.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the City’s requirements
for
the
goods
and/or
services,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Acting Director Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Interim Director
O’Leary.

The City Record
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla and Nichols.
Resolution No. 396-14.
By Director Smith.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Cleveland Uniform, Inc. for an
estimated quantity of employee uniforms and related items, Bid Items
1(D), (K), (L), (O), (P), (W), (X),
2(A), (E), 3(A), (B), (C), 4(C), (F)
and (G), 5(A), (C) through (F), (G),
(H), (I), (K) and 6(B) and (C) for
the various divisions of the Department of Port Control, for a period of
one year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, with one
one-year option to renew, received
on May 22, 2014, under the authority of Section 181.101(a)(25) of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$70,598.00, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Port Control is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services
specified.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the City’s requirements
for
the
goods
and/or
services,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Acting Director Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Interim Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla and Nichols.
Resolution No. 397-14.
By Director Smith.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that all bids
received for the purchase of bunker
gear suits for the various divisions
of Port Control for the Department
of Port Control, received May 2,
2014, under the authority of Section
181.101(a) (25) of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976 are
rejected.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Acting Director Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Interim Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla and Nichols.
Resolution No. 398-14.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns and operates certain real property
commonly
known
as
the
Willard Park Garage under the
supervision and direction of the
Director of Public Works; and
Whereas, ASV Services, LLC has
proposed to offer valet parking services to the general public for the
Human Rights Campaign Fundraiser at Cleveland Public Auditorium
by using the Willard Park Garage;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under Section 183.04 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Public Works

1230

August 27, 2014
is authorized to enter into a concession agreement with ASV Services, LLC to operate a valet parking service for the Human Rights
Campaign Fundraiser at the Cleveland Public Auditorium on September 20, 2014 using Willard Park
Garage for a concession fee of
$450.00 plus $5.00 per vehicle parked.
The concession agreement shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain such additional provisions as the Director of Law deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Acting Director Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Interim Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla and Nichols.
Resolution No. 399-14.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land ReutiProgram
(“Program”)
lization
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 001-08-126 located at 1322 West
89th Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Alexander A. Bognar
has proposed to the City to purchase
and develop the Northerly Portion of
the parcel for parking for residential property; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has either approved the
proposed sale or has not disapproved or requested a hold of the
proposed sale within 45 days of notification of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Alexander A.
Bognar for the sale and development of the Northerly Portion of
Permanent
Parcel
No.
001-08-126
located at 1322 West 89th Street,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Acting Director Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Director

August 27, 2014
Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Interim Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla and Nichols.
Resolution No. 400-14.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 001-08-126 located at 1322 West
89th Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Bassam Malkieh has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the Southerly Portion of the
parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has either approved the
proposed sale or has not disapproved or requested a hold of the
proposed sale within 45 days of notification of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Bassam Malkieh
for the sale and development of the
Southerly Portion of Permanent Parcel No. 001-08-126 located at 1322
West 89th Street, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Acting Director Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Interim Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla and Nichols.
Resolution No. 401-14.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel

The City Record
No. 016-16-082 located at 3433 West
60th Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Gary A. Smith has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the Northerly Portion of the
parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has either approved the
proposed sale or has not disapproved or requested a hold of the
proposed sale within 45 days of notification of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcels is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Gary A. Smith for
the sale and development of the
Northerly Portion of Permanent Parcel No. 016-16-082 located at 3433
West 60th Street, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Acting Director Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Interim Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla and Nichols.
Resolution No. 402-14.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 016-16-082 located at 3433 West
60th Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Stanko Kraguljac has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the Southerly Portion of the
parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has either approved the

1231

43
proposed sale or has not disapproved or requested a hold of the
proposed sale within 45 days of notification of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcels is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Stanko Kraguljac
for the sale and development of the
Southerly Portion of Permanent Parcel No. 016-16-082 located at 3433
West 60th Street, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not loss than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Acting Director Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Interim Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla and Nichols.
Resolution No. 403-14.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 016-08-055 located at 5902 Merrill
Avenue; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Tierra Associates Ltd.
has proposed to the City to purchase
and develop the parcel for industrial open space; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 3 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Tierra Associates

44
Ltd. for the sale and development of
Permanent
Parcel
No.
016-08-055
located at 5902 Merrill Avenue,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $900.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Langhenry,
Yeas:
Directors
Dumas, Acting Director Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Interim Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla and Nichols.
Resolution No. 404-14.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 125-18-023 located at 2966 East
71st Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Fuqua Property Holdings, LLC has proposed to the City
to purchase and develop the parcel
for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 5 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Fuqua Property
Holdings, LLC for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
No. 125-18-023 located at 2966 East
71st Street, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Acting Director Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Interim Director
O’Leary.

The City Record
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla and Nichols.
Resolution No. 405-14.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 129-23-131 located at 11921 Continental Avenue; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Lloyd A. Ali has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 4 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Lloyd A. Ali for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 129-23-131 located at
11921 Continental Avenue, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Acting Director Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Interim Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla and Nichols.
Resolution No. 406-14.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 109-03-024 located at 10107 Columbia Avenue; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,

1232

August 27, 2014
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Carolyn Pollard has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 9 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Carolyn Pollard
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 109-03-024 located
at 10107 Columbia Avenue, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Acting Director Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Interim Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Parrilla and Nichols.
KATE E. RYAN,
Acting Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.

The City Record

August 27, 2014
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

45
furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).
The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE
____________

Voter registration cards.
Birth certificates.

ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2014
Filing Beginning 8/22/2014

Notarized letters or affidavits.
Social Security card.

Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.

Exam
Type

88

EE

Chief
Architect

89

EE

Deputy
Commissioner
Of ITS
Non-Comp

90

91

92

93

Non-Comp

WR/TY Private
Secretary
EE

EE

EE

Open

Public Health
Sanitarian II
Recreation
Center
Manager

Open

Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 88
CHIEF ARCHITECT (Division of
Architecture) (NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY

Non-Comp

Community
Relations
Representative I Open

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $23,647.11 to $104,877.59 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Lease - from rental agency.
Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.
Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.
Bank statements (Within last three
months).
School registration of children.
Car insurance documents.
Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).

Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY,
SEPTEMBER
5,
2014
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 25, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2014.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under administrative direction, performs architectural services required
in the construction, alteration, and
addition to buildings. Plans, supervises, and directs assigned personnel.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam). Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Architecture from an accredited four
year college or university is required.
Five years of full time paid experience as a registered Architect is
required. Must be a registered Architect in the State of Ohio. A valid State
of Ohio Driver’s License is required.
Must have a working knowledge of
AutoCad 2-D and Microsoft Office
Suite programs. A working knowledge of Sharepoint and project planning software as well as good written
and verbal communication skills are
preferred. Good organization skills to
handle multiple projects at the same
time is highly desirable.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 89

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY SIX MONTHS

1233

DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF ITS
(NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $30,214.95 to $102,907.21 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.

The City Record

46
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY,
SEPTEMBER
5,
2014
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 25, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2014.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY SIX MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under administrative direction, manages and coordinates divisional operations and staff activities in the area
of technology system infrastructure
including telecommunications, networks, infrastructure design and
installation, and data center management. Directs and prioritizes the
workload of subordinate personnel.
Acts as the ITS Technical Architect.
Provides technical advice and consultation. Prepares and reviews RFPs as
required. Ensures efficient computer
systems utilization including capacity planning to include managing
Telecommunications, Networks, Computers, SAN and Backup environments. Monitors, manages, maintains,
and administers the infrastructure
environment including: Active Directory;
Exchange;
SQL
database;
VMware; VoIP; Networks. Secures all
servers. Prepares and monitors a disaster recovery environment including
backup of servers. Provides repair
and upgrades for hardware and networks. Manages the PC refresh and
asset tracking activities. Participates
in the ITS strategic planning process.
Assists with managing annual operating and capital budget. Prepares
Legislative Summaries as required.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam). Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering,
Management Information Systems, or
closely related field from an accredited four (4) year college or university
is required. Five (5) years full time
paid relevant high-level management
experience with an emphasis on computer technology management is
required. Must have excellent written
and verbal communication skills.
Must possess strong analytical and
problem solving skills. Must possess
the ability to effectively manage
time, negotiate contracts, create and
carry out strategic planning, work
independently, and work varied
hours. (Substitution: Two years of
experience may be substituted for
each year of college education lacking.) Must be able to lift and carry
thirty (30) pounds. A valid State of
Ohio Driver’s license is required. Network Professional Certification is
preferred.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 90
PRIVATE SECRETARY (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $10.00 - $21.63 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER
5, 2014 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2014.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

1234

August 27, 2014
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION:
This portion of the exam will be
worth 60% of Applicants’ Final
Grade. Applicants will be notified of
the time, date, and place of the exam
by U.S. Mail.
TYPING EXAMINATION: This portion of the exam will be worth 40% of
Applicants’ Final Grade. Applicants
must receive a passing score on
BOTH parts of the exam in order to
receive a score. Those persons who do
not pass both parts will receive a zero.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, does responsible
typing and clerical work. Prepares
reports and handles routine office
details and correspondence for a city
official. Performs general administrative duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. An Associate’s Degree from
an accredited college or university is
required. Three years of full time
paid progressively responsible clerical or secretarial experience is
required. (Substitution: One year of
experience may substitute for each
year of college education lacking.)
Must be able to type 50 words per
minute.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.

August 27, 2014
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 91
PUBLIC HEALTH SANITARIAN II
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $17.38 - $24.07 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER
5, 2014 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2014
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Conducts both routine and “troubleshooter” inspections in private
homes to insure proper environmental
hygiene. Issues orders, notices, or
referrals to other departments, and reinspects to insure compliance. Directs
field teams involved in both surveying areas for rat infection and baiting
rat burrows in those areas. Inspects
barber shops, swimming pools (public
and private), marinas, schools (private and public), institutions, places
of assembly, trailer parks, motels,
hotels, laundries, and other recreation facilities. Investigates citizens’
complaints relative to garbage and
refuse, vacant lots, sewage, animals,
weeds, and grass. Inspects and evaluates food shops and instructs industry

The City Record
personnel in proper sanitation methods. Helps train and supervise firstlevel sanitarians, environmental technicians, and sanitarian aides. Counsels residents in sanitation methods.
Helps plan programs and work schedules. Enforces both state and city
health codes. Must be familiar with
court procedures and methods of
licenses revocation regarding code
violations. Performs other job-relate
duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree with 45
quarter or 30 semester credits hours
in Science, Math, or Chemistry from
an accredited four-year college or university is required. Must be a Sanitarian-In-Training or become one within
90 days of the date of hire. Must
become a Registered Sanitarian within five years of the date of hire. A
valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required. Must own or have access to
a properly insured vehicle.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 92
RECREATION CENTER MANAGER
(NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.

1235

47
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $32,500.00 to $73,916.85 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY,
SEPTEMBER
5,
2014
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 18, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2014.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY SIX MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under administrative direction, performs recreation program and activity planning, supervision, and implementation at a City recreation facility. Organizes programs and activities. Supervises the activities performed by recreation staff. Recruits
and trains recreation staff and volunteers. Promotes program activities
and program participation within the
community. Prepares operational and
other reports. Operates and supervises facility maintenance. Coordinates
maintenance with Property Management. Assigns tasks to employees and
schedules recreation programs and
activities of a recreation center. Coordinates facility’s programs and activities with those of other recreation
facilities. Orients, trains, and evaluates employees under immediate
supervision. Prepares facility’s budget and monitors expenditures. Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence

The City Record

48
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam). Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:

TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.

A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Three years of full time
paid experience in recreation programs is required. (Substitution: A
Bachelor’s Degree from a four-year
accredited college or university may
be substituted for the experience.) A
valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required. Must complete the Pool and
Spa Management Course and acquire
CPR Certification and First Aid Certification within one year of appointment. The following are preferred:
previous experience in recreation programming, supervising, training,
organizing, promoting, and/or coordinating; previous experience managing a recreation facility, in program
development, in the utilization of
recruitment techniques; demonstrated progressive responsibility in a professional setting.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 93
COMMUNITY RELATIONS REPRESENTATIVE I (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $10.00 - $19.87 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER
5, 2014 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2014

EXAMINATION INFORMATION

August 27, 2014
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.

NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.

DUTIES OF THE POSITION

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Under administrative supervision,
investigates neighborhood disputes,
sources of community conflict and
tension, conflict amongst ethnic,
inter-generational,
and
diverse
groups. Coordinates, promotes, and
oversees the implementation of all
the activities to maintain and
improve police/community relations
in the assigned police district. Reaches out and engages with community
stakeholders to make them aware of
City services and Social Services
available (including, but not limited
to, neighborhood residents and business owners, schools, faith/community based institutions, as well as
block/street clubs and associations).
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Two years of full time paid
progressively responsible experience
in program administration in a Social
Service, Public Administration, or a
Not-for-Profit
environment
is
required. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is required. Must be able
to lift and carry 30 pounds. The following are preferred: An Associate’s
Degree; Ten Cumulative Hours in
Conflict Resolution/ Mediation Continuing Education Units (CEUs) from
a certified training professional or
agency; Proficiency in the use of
Microsoft Office applications.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid

1236

ROBERT BENNETT,
President
August 27, 2014

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2014
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 14-144: 511 East 140th
Street (Ward 8)
Gillota Fuel Products, owner, proposes to expand existing motor vehicle service station by adding a 209
square foot addition on an irregular
shaped parcel located in a D2 Local
Retail Business District. The owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application of the following Sections
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 343.01 which states that
a motor vehicle service station is
not permitted in a Local Retail Business District.
2. Section 343.11(b)(2)(I)(1) which
states that a service station is first
permitted in a General Retail Business District.
3. Section 343.14(a)(1) requires a
6' high wall or fence where the use
abuts a residential district and no
fence is proposed.
4. Section 359.01 states that an
expansion of a nonconforming use
requires Board of Zoning Appeals
approval. (Filed July 30, 2014)
Appeal Administrative Decision
Calendar No. 14-161: 511 East 140th
Street (Ward 8)
Gillota
Fuel
Product,
owner,
appeals under the authority of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d)
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances in dispute of the decision
rendered by the City of Building
and Housing Department in issuing
Notice of Nonconformance S14021603;
B14021603, issued July 29, 2014 for
the property located at 511 East
140th Street regarding failure to
comply
with
Sections
343.01,
343.11(b)(2)(1)(I), 343.14 (a)(1) and
359.01 in the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances. (Filed August 14, 2014)

August 27, 2014
Calendar No. 14-154: 1740 Hillview
Road (Ward 10)
Richard Ford, owner, proposes to
erect an 18' x 39' 1 story steel
detached garage on a 37' x 140' parcel located in a B1 Two Family Residential District. The owner appeals
for relief from the strict application
of Section 337.23(7)(A) which states
that an accessory garage shall not
exceed 687.5 square feet and 702
square feet are proposed. (Filed
August 1, 2014)
Calendar No. 14-157: 1867 West 25th
Street (Ward 3)
P. and M. Ohio City LLC, owner,
proposes to add outdoor seating for
Mitchell’s Ice Cream located in a C4
Local Retail Business District and a
Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO).
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following Sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 349.04(f) which states
that 14 parking off-street parking
spaces are required; and
2. Section 343.23(i) which states
the required parking spaces are
reduced by 33% when located in a
Pedestrian Retail Overlay District;
in this case the total required offstreet parking spaces is 5 and none
are proposed. (Filed August 6, 2014)
Calendar No. 14-159: 2240 Green Road
(Ward 10)
Nick Jackson, owner, proposes to
erect a 26' x 38', 1,040 square foot
garage on a 50' x 140' parcel located in an A1 One-Family Residential
District. The owner appeals from
Section 337.23 (a)(7)(A) of the
Cleveland
Codified
Ordinances
which states that the floor area of
a private garage erected as an
accessory building shall not exceed
six hundred fifty (650) square feet
unless the lot area exceeds four
thousand
eight
hundred
(4,800)
square feet in which event the floor
area may be increased in the ratio
of one (1) square foot for each
twelve (12) square feet of additional lot area; in this case the maximum square footage allowed is 862.5
square feet and 1,040 is proposed.
(Filed August 11, 2014)
Calendar No. 14-160: 4267 East 168th
Place (Ward 1)
Otis Buchanan, owner, proposes to
erect a 12' x 39' L-shaped 1 story
frame attached garage addition to
an existing single family residence
located in an A1 One-Family Residential District. The owner appeals
for relief from the strict application
of Section 357.08(b)(1) which states
that the required rear yard is 20'
and 16' are proposed. (Filed August
11, 2014)
Calendar No. 14-162: 10201 Harvard
Avenue (Ward 2)
9000 Aetna LLC, owner, proposes
to establish use for outside storage/stockpiling of dirt and rock on
a parcel located in a B3 Semi-Industry District. The owner appeals for
relief from the strict application of
the following Sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 345.03(c) which states
that in a Semi-Industry District open
yard storage/stockpiling of dirt/top
soil/rock/dusty materials are not
among permitted listed uses.
2. Section 347.05 which states that
no space for the storage or distribution of coal, cinders, stone, slag,

The City Record

49

sand, cement, lime, iron ore or similar dust-producing material shall be
located less than three hundred
(300) feet from a Residence District,
Local Retail Business District or
General Retail Business District,
except where the dust, smoke, odor,
noise and vibration therefrom will
effectively
be
confined
to
the
premises. The subject parcel is
directly across the street from a
Two-Family Residential District.
3. Section 345.03(c)(33) states that
any material stored in unclosed
premises to a height greater than
four feet above grade level shall be
surrounded by a substantial seven
foot high wall or fence erected to
observe all required building lines
and no fence is shown.
4. Section 349.07(a) states that
accessory off-street parking spaces,
driveways and vehicle maneuvering
areas shall be properly graded for
so
that
all
water
is
drainage
drained within the lot providing
such parking spaces, and surfaced
with concrete, asphalt, or other
acceptable paving material maintained
in
good
condition.
No
drainage or specific paving detail
shown. Driveway and aprons must
also be shown on the plan. (Filed
August 15, 2014)
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, AUGUST 25, 2014
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, August
25, 2014, the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 14-131: 732 East 127th
Street
Al Kriss appeals to change the
use from two-family to three-family
dwelling in a Two-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-138: 2238 East 81st
Street
Carl and Carol Wilson appealed to
erect an 18'-6" x 16'-6" 1 story frame
bedroom addition to an existing single family home.

The
following
DENIED:

appeals

were

appeals

were

None.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:
None.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.
The following appeals were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 14-139: ABE Tayeh
16820 Lakeshore Blvd. Postponed
to September 22, 2014.
Calendar No. 14-095: Antonio Ortiz
4207 Clark Avenue. Postponed to
October 13, 2014.
The following upcoming appeals
were rescheduled/postponed:
Calendar No. 14-142: Bethel Church
3675 East 65th Street. Postponed
from September 2, 2014 to September
29, 2014
Calendar Nos. 14-117 through 14-126:
Chelsea Investment Partners
1204 Auburn Ave. From September
8, 2014 to October 13, 2014.
The following appeals were heard
by the Board on August 18, 2014 and
the decisions were adopted and
approved on August 25, 2014;
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 14-133: 2267 West 20th
Street
Richard Vanpetten and Dale H.
Smith, owners, appealed to erect a
28' x 76' 2 story single family residence on 66.70' x 120' parcel in a
B1 Multi-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-137: 3971 East 176th
Street
Lillian Greene, owner, appealed
the decision of the City of Cleveland
Waste Collection Division in issuing
a Civil Infraction Ticket.
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

were

None
Secretary

Calendar No. 14-75: 5709 Lorain
Avenue
Ibrahim
Kalini
appealed
to
change the use from service station
to motor vehicle service garage in a
Local Retail Business District and a
Pedestrian Retail Overlay District.
Calendar No. 14-104: 14143 Triskett
Road
Debra Dabato appealed to erect a
4'-8" x 12' enclosed porch on the
front of a house located in a B1
Two-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-132: 1107 University
Road
Nick Sommers appealed to erect a
16'-4" x 30' 1 story open front porch
to an existing single family residence in a Local Retail Business
District.

1237

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

The City Record

50
CITY of CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2014
File No 106-14 — EMS Inventory
Management
Systems
(Re-bid),
for the Division of Emergency
Medical Services, Department of
Public Safety, as authorized by
Section 181.101 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER
4,
2014 AT 10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND
CITY HALL, DIVISION OF PURCHASE
AND
SUPPLIES,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
August 27, 2014 and September 3, 2014
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2014
File No 107- 2014 — Repair/Replace
Fire Extinguishers, for the various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, as
authorized by Section 181.101 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2014

AT 1:30 P.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, DIVISION OF PURCHASE
AND SUPPLIES, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
August 27, 2014 and September 3, 2014

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 892-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Zone, Cimperman, Brady, Polensek
and J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution establishing a working committee to study the
effectiveness of Trap-Neuter-Return
and Return to Field Community Cat
city services and community education to decrease free-roaming cat populations in Cleveland’s neighborhoods and create a safe, healthy, and
humane community for cats and people alike.
Whereas, the Cleveland Animal
Protective League (APL) estimates
that there are more than 60,000 freeroaming, feral, or “community” cats in
Cleveland alone; and
Whereas, the APL, Cleveland Division of Animal Control Services
(CDACS), and Cleveland City Council
receive countless calls from city residents about cats in their neighborhoods; and
Whereas, currently, a partnership
between the APL and the City of
Cleveland allows caretakers to trap
free-roaming cats, transport them to
the APL where they are spayed and
neutered at a subsidized cost, and
return cats to their territory and provide ongoing care; and
Whereas, since the inception of this
trap-neuter-return (TNR) program,
approximately 5000 free-roaming cats
are served a year, with approximately
50% coming from the city of Cleveland, and the number of complaints
received
about
stray
cats
has
decreased at the CDACS and in Cleveland’s neighborhoods; and
Whereas, this Council will establish a working committee, including
the APL, CDACS, Health Department,
and Committees on Safety, Development, Planning and Sustainability,
and Health to study the effectiveness
of Trap-Neuter-Return services that
are currently provided by the City and
APL, and how to expand those services to include targeted TNR and
new Return to Field (RTF) strategies
to further decrease free-roaming cat
populations and create a safe,
healthy, and humane community; and
Whereas, this working committee
will study TNR and RTF Community
Cat ordinances and programs in other
cities, examine the City’s current ordinances, and possibly repeal portions
that require the City to impound cats;
and
Whereas, the committee also will
study ways to educate the community
on how to be an effective cat caretaker, including possible caregiver training; and
Whereas, the committee will study
the feasibility of incorporating Community Cat services into the CDACS’s
operations and new facility, and
study and propose costs to be included
in the 2015 City budget; and
Whereas, the ultimate goal of the
workin g c o m m i t t e e i s t o r e d u c e

1238

August 27, 2014
reproduction of free-roaming cats by
humanely trapping, surgically
sterilizing, and returning the cats to
their territory as “community” cats.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council establishes a working committee to study
the effectiveness of Trap-NeuterReturn and Return to Field Community Cat city services and community
education to decrease free-roaming
cat populations in Cleveland’s neighborhoods and create a safe, healthy,
and humane community for cats and
people alike.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit a copy
of this resolution to Sharon A. Harvey, President & CEO, Cleveland Animal Protective League
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1002-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 6501 Denison Avenue, and repealing Resolution
No. 1052-13, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to Hanini 7 Oil, Inc., DBA West 65
Gas USA, 6501 Denison Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number
3571080 by Resolution No. 1052-13,
adopted by the Council on August 14,
2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit
to Hanini 7 Oil, Inc., DBA West 65 Gas
USA, 6501 Denison Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44102,
Permanent
Number
3571080, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 105213, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from

August 27, 2014
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1003-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to 2920 Detroit
Avenue and patio.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit
from Bop Stop Promotions, LLC, 2920
Detroit Avenue and patio, Cleveland,
Ohio
44113,
Permanent
Number
0833430 to Cleveland Music School Settlement, 2920 Detroit Avenue and
patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 1547505; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit from Bop Stop Promotions, LLC,
2920 Detroit Avenue and patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number
0833430 to Cleveland Music School Settlement, 2920 Detroit Avenue and
patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 1547505; and requests
the Superintendent of Liquor Control
to set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a

The City Record
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1004-14.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 1417-23 East 21st Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
3693706 owned by Hayes Development
Group, LLC, DBA Mardi Gras, 1417-23
East 21st Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44114, and requests the Superintendent of the Division of Liquor Control
to set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Superintendent of the Division
of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and

1239

51
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1005-14.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 3600
East 116th Street and repealing Resolution No. 937-13, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit to Tuz, Inc., 3600 East 116th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number 9115172 by Resolution
No. 937-13, adopted by the Council on
July 10, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of C2 and C2X Liquor Permit
to Tuz, Inc., 3600 East 116th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 9115172, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
937-13, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1006-14.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of location of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to 4096 East 131st
Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of location of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit
from Sophie T. Inc., DBA Imperial
Deli & Beverage, 12301-03 Imperial
Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 9120790 to Rauhi Rahman,
4096 East 131st Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44105,
Permanent
Number
72040040010; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated

52
his liquor business in disregard of the
laws, regulations or local ordinances of
this state or any other state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
location of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit from Sophie T. Inc., DBA Imperial
Deli & Beverage, 12301-03 Imperial
Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 9120790 to Rauhi Rahman,
4096 East 131st Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44105,
Permanent
Number
72040040010; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1007-14.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to 910 East
185th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit
from Niju Investments, LLC, 910 East
185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119,
Permanent Number 63817750050 to
Petro Energy Northeast, Inc., 910 East
185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119,
Permanent Number 6857042; and

The City Record
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit from Niju Investments, LLC, 910
East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44119, Permanent Number 63817750050
to Petro Energy Northeast, Inc., 910
East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44119, Permanent Number 6857042;
and requests the Superintendent of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1008-14.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at 770 East 185th Street and
repealing Resolution No. 1624-13,
objecting to said transfer.

1240

August 27, 2014
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit to Uptown Ultra
Lounge, LLC, 770 East 185th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent No.
9170570 by Resolution No. 1624-13
adopted by the Council on November
25, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit to Uptown Ultra
Lounge, LLC, 770 East 185th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent No.
9170570, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 162413, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1009-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D2,
D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to
850 Euclid Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit from Liffey Enterprises, Inc., DBA Black Dog Kitchen and
Bar, 850 Euclid Avenue, 1st floor,
Suite 120, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number 5196623 to Cleveland
Beverage, LLC, 850 Euclid Avenue,
1st floor, Suite 120 Cleveland, Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
15432800005; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of

August 27, 2014
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit from Liffey Enterprises, Inc., DBA Black Dog Kitchen
and Bar, 850 Euclid Avenue, 1st floor,
Suite 120, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number 5196623 to Cleveland
Beverage, LLC, 850 Euclid Avenue,
1st floor, Suite 120 Cleveland, Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
15432800005; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1010-14.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of location of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit to 18029 Euclid
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of location of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit
from Struga, Inc., DBA Sin Nite Club,
1296 West 6th Street and patios, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number
8651505 to Blueprint, LLC, 18029
Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112,
Permanent Number 0765919; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of

The City Record
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
location of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit
from Struga, Inc., DBA Sin Nite Club,
1296 West 6th Street and patios, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number
8651505 to Blueprint, LLC, 18029
Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112,
Permanent Number 0765919; and
requests the Superintendent of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1011-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 5105
Franklin Boulevard.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for a New C1 Liquor
Permit at Habibi Market, Inc., 5105
Franklin Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent Number 3479137;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and

1241

53
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Habibi Market, Inc.,
5105 Franklin Boulevard, Cleveland,
Ohio
44102,
Permanent
Number
3479137; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1012-14.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit at
3578 Independence Road and repealing Resolution No. 1204-13, objecting
to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor Permit to Above The Best
Entertainment, LLC, 3578 Independence Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent No. 0029341 by Resolution
No. 1204-13 adopted by the Council on
September 16, 2013; and

54
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit to Above The Best Entertainment, LLC, 3578 Independence Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent No.
0029341, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 120413, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1013-14.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D2 and D2X Liquor Permit at 9203
Kinsman Avenue and repealing Resolution No. 938-13, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D2 and D2X Liquor
Permit to Ossie, Inc., DBA Kinsman’s
Shell, 9203 Kinsman Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number
6591675 by Resolution No. 938-13,
adopted by the Council on July 10,
2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D2 and D2X Liquor Permit to Ossie, Inc., DBA Kinsman’s
Shell, 9203 Kinsman Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number
6591675, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 938-13,
containing such objection, be and the
same is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

The City Record
Res. No. 1014-14.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit at
7038 Linwood Avenue and repealing
Resolution No 1625-12, objecting to
said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit to Annette Green, DBA
Green’s Linwood Deli, 7038 Linwood
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent No. 33502090005 by Resolution
No. 1625-12 adopted by the Council on
November 19, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor
Permit to Annette Green, DBA
Green’s Linwood Deli, 7038 Linwood
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent No. 33502090005, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1625-12, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1015-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to 4506 Lorain
Avenue, 1st floor.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit
from Kadri, Inc., 4606 Lorain Avenue,
1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number 4433114 to Lorain
Avenue Super Mercabo, Inc., DBA
Ohio City Mini Mart, 4506 Lorain
Avenue, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent Number 5262570;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to

1242

August 27, 2014
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit from Kadri, Inc., 4606 Lorain
Avenue, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent Number 4433114 to
Lorain Avenue Super Mercabo, Inc.,
DBA Ohio City Mini Mart, 4506 Lorain
Avenue, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent Number 5262570;
and requests the Superintendent of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1016-14.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit
at 6101 Memphis Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for

August 27, 2014
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.5830264
owned by Memphis Station, LLC, DBA
Memphis Station, 6101 Memphis
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44144, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Superintendent of the Division
of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1017-14.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at
12301 Miles Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 946-13, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit to Jake, Jr. & Lucille
Morrison, DBA Jake’s Lounge, 12301
Miles Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 6180959 by Resolution No. 94613, adopted by the Council on July 10,
2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit to Jake, Jr. & Lucille
Morrison, DBA Jake’s Lounge, 12301
Miles Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 6180959, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
946-13, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1018-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 1222 Prospect Avenue, 1st
floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
15721860001 owned by Club Center
Lounge, Inc., DBA Xecutive Lounge,
1222 Prospect Avenue, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and s h e i s h e r e b y d i r e c t e d t o
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that the
objection is based upon substantial

1243

55
legal grounds within the meaning and
i n t e n t o f d i v i s i o n ( A ) o f S e ct i o n
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1019-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 75 Public Square, Suite B-100
and repealing Resolution No. 917-13,
objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit to Underground
Entertainment, Inc., DBA Underground, 75 Public Square, Suite B-100,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 9148958 by Resolution No. 91713, adopted by the Council on July 10,
2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit to Underground Entertainment, Inc., DBA Underground, 75
Public Square, Suite B-100, Cleveland,
Ohio
44113,
Permanent
Number
9148958, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 917-13,
containing such objection, be and the
same is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1020-14.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit at 3837 Ridge
Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
W h e r e a s , p u r s u a n t t o S e ct i o n
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the

56
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit,
Permit No.7366153 owned by Ridge
Road Castle 3837, Inc., 3837 Ridge
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44144, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she i s hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that the
objection is based upon substantial
legal grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1021-14.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit at
5510 St. Clair Avenue and repealing
Resolution No 566-14, objecting to said
transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit to AS & KS, Inc., DBA
St. Clair BP, 5510 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent No.
0006566, by Resolution No. 566-14
adopted by the Council on April 28,
2014; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and

The City Record
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of location of a C1 Liquor
Permit to AS & KS, Inc., DBA St. Clair
BP, 5510 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44103, Permanent No. 0006566, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 566-14, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1022-14.
By Council Member Dow
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A
and D6 Liquor Permit at 3610 Superior
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 8736351 owned by
Sweethearts Café, Inc., 3610 Superior
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a

1244

August 27, 2014
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Superintendent of the Division
of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1023-14.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New D5J Liquor Permit at 15802
Waterloo Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for a New D5J Liquor
Permit at Upper Room Entertainment, LLC, 15802 Waterloo Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent
Number 9169100; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New D5J
Liquor Permit at Upper Room Entertainment, LLC, 15802 Waterloo Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent

August 27, 2014
Number 9169100; and requests the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1024-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 1261-65 West 6th Street, 1st
floor and patio.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
9330015 owned by W. 6th Restaurant
Group, Ltd., DBA Barley House Cleveland, 1261-65 West 6th Street, 1st floor
and patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,

The City Record
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Superintendent of the Division
of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1025-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Kelley.
An emergency resolution recognizing September as Childhood Cancer
Awareness Month.
Whereas, the American Cancer
Fund for Children and Kids Cancer
Connection report that cancer is the
leading cause of death by disease
among U.S. children between infancy
and age 15; and
Whereas, cancer is detected in more
than 15,000 of America’s young people
each year; and
Whereas, one in five of our nation’s
children loses his or her battle with
cancer; many infants, children and
teens will suffer from long-term
effects of comprehensive treatment,
including secondary cancers; and
Whereas, founded over 20 years ago
by Steven Firestein, a member of the
philanthropic Max Factor family, the
American Cancer Fund for Children,
Inc. and Kids Cancer Connection, Inc.
are dedicated to helping children
with cancer and their families; and
Whereas, the American Cancer
Fund for Children and Kids Cancer
Connection provide a variety of vital
patient psychosocial services to children undergoing cancer treatment at
Cleveland Clinic Children’s Hospital
and Rainbow Babies and Children’s
Hospital in Cleveland, as well as participating hospitals throughout the
country, thereby enhancing the quality of life for these children and their
families; and
Whereas, the American Cancer
Fund for Children and Kids Cancer
Connection also sponsor nationwide
Courageous Kid recognition award
ceremonies and hospital celebrations
in honor of a child’s determination
and bravery to fight the battle
against childhood cancer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
recognizes September as Childhood
Cancer Awareness Month.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to forward copies
of this resolution to the American
Cancer Fund for Children, Inc. and
Kids Cancer Connection, Inc.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the

1245

57
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1057-14.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a C1, C2 and D6
Liquor Permit at 18314 Euclid
Avenue, Unit D, and repealing Resolution No. 885-14, objecting to said
transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of liquor license of a C1,
C2 and D6 Liquor Permit to Rida, Inc.,
DBA Green Lite Beverage & Liquor,
Unit D, 18314 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permanent No.
73626610001, by Resolution No. 885-14
adopted by the Council on July 16,
2014; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1, C2
and D6 Liquor Permit to Rida, Inc.,
DBA Green Lite Beverage and Liquor,
Unit D, 18314 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permanent No.
73626610001, be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 88514, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1058-14.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1, D2 and D6
Liquor Permit at 7910 Harvard
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated

58
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit
No. 7274254 owned by Reham Food
Mart, Inc., DBA Clark Oil, 7910 Harvard Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
and requests the Superintendent of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Superintendent of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1065-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution declaring
that the City of Cleveland recognizes
the benefits of a diet high in fruits
and vegetables, and urging residents
to participate in “Meatless Mondays”
to improve their health and decrease
their carbon footprint.
Whereas, “Meatless Monday,” is a
non-profit initiative associated with
the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School
of Public Health that encourages people to try food alternatives other than
meat at least one day a week; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland and
Cleveland City Council are committed
to improving the health of its citizens
in every neighborhood, and are implementing Healthy Cleveland Standards to improve nutrition with
access to fruits and vegetables; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
passed a resolution promoting the
adoption of the Healthy Cleveland
Nutrition Guidelines, aimed to help
guide public agencies to increase the

The City Record
amounts of nutritious foods served,
thus improving the health and wellness of Cleveland residents; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
demonstrated commitment to environmental stewardship by establishing
the Mayor’s Office of Sustainability,
and through Sustainable Cleveland
2019 is facilitating helpful programs
to reduce energy costs and greenhouse gas emissions, while enjoying
local food and community potlucks;
and
Whereas, the Greater Cleveland
Food Bank is promoting Meatless
Mondays in its kitchen, by serving
over 7000 nutrient rich meatless
meals each week to low-income children and seniors; and
Whereas, recent reports released by
the Center for Disease Control show
75% of Ohioans not meeting the daily
recommended intake of five servings
of fruits and vegetables each day,
contributing to Ohio’s placement as
the 13th  most obese state with over
30% of Ohio adults being considered
obese (BMI >30); and
Whereas, data provided by Case
Western’s
Reserve’s
Prevention
Research Center (PRC) indicates
that more than one third of Cleveland
adults are suffering from high blood
pressure (34.8%), and one in eight
Cleveland adults are fighting diabetes (12.4%); and
Whereas, diverse vegetarian meals
centered around veggies, fruits,
whole grains, and plant protein
sources, contain fiber, a nutrient that
knocks out hunger and protects
against several diseases; and
Whereas, Cleveland Clinic heart
doctors and nutritionists at the Wellness Institute recommend eating
more meatless meals to protect heart
health and lower the incidence and
severity of chronic illnesses; and
Whereas, studies published in Science Daily show that high rates of
fruit and vegetable consumption promote longevity and lower mortality
rates; and
Whereas, livestock production emits
a significant share of greenhouse
gases to the atmosphere in the form of
methane from cattle, nitrous oxide
from f i e l d s g r o w i n g f e e d - c r o p s ,
deforestation for grazing/feed-crops,
and other excessive fossil fuel inputs;
corresponding studies published in
Scienc e D a i l y s h o w a v e g a n d i e t
contributes least to greenhouse gas
emissi o n s , b u t t h a t e v e n m o d e s t
adjustments to reduce the amount of
animal-based foods we eat lowers
carbon footprint significantly; and 
Whereas, the City recognizes that it
may be easier for residents to eat
more meatless meals than it would be
to drive less or reduce energy use in
other ways; and
Whereas, it takes  approximately
1,850 gallons of water to produce a
single pound of beef, but only 39 gallons to produce a pound of vegetables;
and
Whereas,
less
water-intensive,
plant-strong agriculture and eating
habits support resiliency to climate
change while limiting the likelihood
of animal manure polluting our fresh
water and causing algae blooms that
create aquatic dead zones; and
Whereas, farmed animals are largely fed GMO crops that are chemical
dependent; Environmental Working  Group estimates that growing

1246

August 27, 2014
livestock feed in the U.S. alone
requires 167 million pounds of pesticides and 17 billion pounds of nitrogen fertilizer each year across some
149 million acres of cropland; and
Whereas, the city of Cleveland
expresses thanks to farmers for feeding the community and supports
efforts that promote responsible land
use practices and preserve crop diversity; and
Whereas, over ninety percent of
animal foods come from factory farm
style production where animals live
out short lives in stressful confinement, endure various forms of mutilation, and the unhealthy smelly conditions have resulted in the overuse of
antibiotics; and
Whereas, the Humane Society of
the US estimates that one billion animals could be spared the experience
on factory farms if Americans ate
meatless meals on Mondays; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares that the City of Cleveland
recognizes the benefits of a diet high
in fruits and vegetables, and urges
residents to participate in “Meatless
Mondays” to improve their health and
decrease their carbon footprint.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1066-14.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 Liquor Permit
at 10808 Dove Avenue, 1st floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,

August 27, 2014
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
6503136 owned by Ocean, Inc., 10808
Dove Avenue, 1st floor, Cleveland,
Ohio 44105, and requests the Superintendent of the Division of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Superintendent of the Division
of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1067-14.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 Liquor Permit
at 3643 East 116th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this

The City Record
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
4948435 owned by Kwick Food Corporation, 3743 East 116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and requests the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Superintendent of the Division
of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Res. No. 1068-14.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit
at 3705 East 116th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and

59
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior
to the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7171120 owned by Rahi, Inc., 3705 East
116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
and requests the Superintendent of
the Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Superintendent of the Division
of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 1435-13.
By Council Members Cummins, Zone and Cimperman.
An ordinance changing the Use District of lands located on the north and south sides of Clark Avenue Between Train
Avenue and W. 41st Street from Semi-Industry to General Retail Business (Map Change No. 2464).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Clark Avenue at its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of W.
48th Street;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the southerly line of Sublot No. 473 in the Taylor Hoyt Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 1,
Page 36 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said southerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of W. 48th Place;
Thence southerly along said centerline of W. 48th Place and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Clark Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Clark Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of W. 46th Street;

1247

60

The City Record

August 27, 2014

Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of said centerline to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the southerly line of Sublot Number 394 in the aforementioned Taylor & Hoyt Subdivision;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line
thereof;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the southerly
line of Sublot No. 670 in the H. Stone Addition shown on the recorded plat in Volume 1 Page 42 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the easterly line
of Sublot No. 573 in the aforementioned H. Stone Addition;
Thence northerly along said easterly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Howlett Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot
No. 580 in the aforementioned H. Stone Addition;
Thence southerly along said prolongation and said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line thereof;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with a line drawn parallel to and 80 feet easterly of the easterly line of Sublot No. 556 in the aforementioned H. Stone Addition;
Thence southerly along said parallel line to its intersection with the centerline of Clark Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Clark Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot No. 338 in the Rhodes, Hartnell, Barber & Selden Re-Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume
27 Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line
thereof;
Thence westerly along said southerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of West 41st Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of W. 41st Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
northerly line of Sublot No. 355 in the aforementioned Rhodes, Hartnell, Barber & Selden Re-Subdivision also known as
Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 007-28-035;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line of
Sublot No. 358 in the aforementioned Rhodes, Hartnell, Barber & Selden Re-Subdivision;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly line of Selden Court;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of W. 44th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of W. 44th St. to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the southerly line of Sublot Number 5 in the Rhodes, Hartnell, Barber and Selden Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume
5, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line
thereof;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the easterly
prolongation of the northerly line of Vacated Milford Court;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its
intersection with the center line of W. 46th St.;
Thence northerly along said centerline and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of
Clark Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Clark Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of W. 56th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of W. 56th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
northerly line of Sublot No. 4 in the Conrad Marquart Re-Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 3, Page 40 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line of
Sublot No. 41 in the Diodate Clark Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 3, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line thereof;
Thence westerly along said southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line thereof;
Thence northerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the southerly line of
Sublot No. 40 in the aforementioned Diodate Clark Subdivision;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said southerly line and continuing along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of W. 58th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of W. 58th Street and along it northerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Clark Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Clark Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of Train Avenue;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the centerline of Train Court;
Thence easterly, northeasterly and easterly along said westerly prolongation and said centerline, continuing along
its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of W. 56th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of W. 56th Street and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Clark Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Clark Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of W. 48th Street and the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a General Retail Business District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2464, and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

1248

August 27, 2014

The City Record

61

Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective September 19, 2014.

Ord. No. 1604-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance changing the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands on the north side of Lorain at the Lorain
Carnegie Bridge between Columbus Road and West 17th Street to Local Retail Business or Multi-Family District,
a ‘K’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District, or a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height District (Map Change No.
2462).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Lorain-Carnegie Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of Columbus Road;
Thence northerly along said centerline of Columbus Road to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of
the southerly line of Parcel ‘B’ of the Lot Split plat recorded in Volume 361, Pages 26-33 of Cuyahoga County
Map Records;
Thence northeasterly along said southerly line to its intersection with a westerly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly ling to its intersection with a southwesterly line thereof;
Thence southwesterly along said southwesterly line to its intersection with a westerly line thereof;
Thence southerly and easterly and southerly again along said westerly line to its intersection with the southerly most line of the aforementioned Parcel ‘B’;
Thence easterly along said southerly line to its intersection with an easterly line thereof;
Thence northerly along said easterly line to its intersection the westerly prolongation of the northerly terminus of West 19th Street;

1249

62

The City Record

August 27, 2014

Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said terminus to its intersection with the northerly line
of vacated Grove Court (vacated by Ordinance No. 1022-89; effective date June 12, 1989);
Thence northeasterly along said northerly line of Grove Court to its intersection with the northwesterly prolongation of the southwesterly line of Sublot No. 104 in the Averell & Bradford’s Grove Allotment Shown on the
recorded plat in Volume 6, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 004-02-006);
Thence southeasterly along said southwesterly line and along its southeasterly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of the Lorain – Carnegie Bridge;
Thence southwesterly along said centerline of the Lorain Carnegie Bridge and along its southwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Columbus Road and the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local-Retail District, a ‘K’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height
District.
Section 2. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of West 17th Street at its intersection Carnegie Avenue (also known as Lorain
Carnegie Bridge);
Thence northwesterly along said centerline of West 17th Street to its intersection with the southeasterly line
of the Averell & Bradford’s Grove Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 6, Page 4;
Thence northeasterly along said southeasterly line to its intersection with the southwesterly line of Parcel ‘B’
of the Lot Split plat recorded in Volume 361, Pages 26-33 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 004-26-008);
Thence in a general northwesterly direction along said southwesterly line to its intersection with the northeasterly prolongation of the northwesterly line of vacated Grove Court (vacated by Ordinance No. 1022-89; effective date June 12, 1989);
Thence southwesterly along said northeasterly prolongation and said northwesterly line to its intersection with
the southwesterly line of Sublot No. 107 in the Averell & Bradford’s Grove Alltoment shown the recorded plat in
Volume 6, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 004-02-002);
Thence southeasterly along said southwesterly line and along its southeasterly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of Lorain Avenue;
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Lorain Avenue to its intersection with the northeasterly prolongation of the centerline of West 17th Street;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of W. 17th Street to its intersection with the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Multi-Family Residential, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height
District.
Section 3. That the Use, Height and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Carnegie Avenue (also known as Lorain Carnegie Bridge) at its intersection
with the southeasterly prolongation of the northeasterly line of Sublot No. 43 in the Averell & Bradford’s Grove
Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 4, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 004-02-017);
Thence northwesterly along said southeasterly prolongation and said northeasterly line to its intersection with
the northwesterly line thereof;
Thence northeasterly along said northwesterly line to its intersection with the northeasterly line of Sublot No.
42 in the aforementioned Averell & Bradford’s Grove Allotment;
Thence northwesterly along said northeasterly line to its intersection with the northwesterly line thereof also
known as the northwesterly line of the aforementioned Averell & Bradford’s Allotment;
Thence southwesterly along said northwesterly line to its intersection with the centerline of West 17th Street;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of West 17th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Carnegie
Avenue (also known as Lorain Carnegie Bridge);
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Carnegie Avenue (also known as Lorain Carnegie Bridge) to its
intersection with the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Multi-Family District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height
District
Section 4. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Lorain Avenue at its intersection with the northwesterly prolongation of the centerline of West 17th Street;
Thence northwesterly along said northerly prolongation of the centerline of West 17th Street to its intersection
with the southeasterly line of the Averell and Bradford’s Grove Allotment shown on the recorded Plat in Volume
6, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northeasterly along said southeasterly line to its intersection with the southerly line Parcel ‘B’ of the
Lot Split Plat recorded in Volume 361, Pages 26-33 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 004-26-008);
Thence in a general northeasterly direction along said southerly line to its intersection with northwesterly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to Earl L. Walker by deed dated December 11, 1990 and recorded in Auditor’s File
Number V90076370026 said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 004-02-110;
Thence southwesterly along said northwesterly line and along its southwesterly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of West 17th Street;
Thence northwesterly along said centerline of West 17th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Lorain
Avenue and the principal place of beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to an Open Space and Recreation District.
Section 5. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Lorain Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of Columbus Rd.;
Thence northerly along said centerline of Columbus Rd. to its intersection with the southerly line of the Cuyahoga River;
Thence easterly and northeasterly along said southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Carter Peninsula Inc. by Deed dated May 27, 1988 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number
V88824260051l (PPN 004-28-001);
Thence southerly along said westerly line to its intersection with a southerly line thereof;
Thence northeasterly and southeasterly along said southerly line and along its southeasterly prolongation to
its intersection with the centerline of Carnegie Avenue (also known as the Lorain Carnegie Bridge);

1250

August 27, 2014

The City Record

63

Thence southwesterly along said centerline to its intersection with the southeasterly prolongation of the northeasterly line of Sublot No. 43 in the Averell & Bradford’s Grove Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume
4, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northwesterly along said southeasterly prolongation and said northeasterly line to its intersection with
the northwesterly line thereof;
Thence northeasterly along said northwesterly line to its intersection with the southerly line of Parcel ‘B’ of
the Lot Split plat recorded in Volume 361, Pages 26-33 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 004-26-008);
Thence continuing in a general northwesterly and then a general southwesterly direction along said southerly
line to its intersection with an easterly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly most line of the aforementioned
Parcel ‘B’;
Thence westerly along said southerly most line to its intersection with a westerly line thereof;
Thence northerly, northeasterly and northerly again along said westerly line to its intersection with a southerly line thereof;
Thence southwesterly along said southerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Columbus Road;
Thence southerly along said centerline of Columbus Road to its intersection with the centerline of Lorain Avenue
and the principal place of beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District, a ‘K’ Area District and a ‘1’
Height District.
Section 6. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 through 5 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2462, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 7. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective September 19, 2014.

1251

64
Ord. No. 463-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a HUD
108 Empowerment Zone loan from the
United States Department of Housing
and Urban Development to partially
finance the tenant build-out portion of
the overall redevelopment of the Victory Building located at 7012 Euclid
Avenue and other associated costs
necessary to redevelop the properties;
and authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into one
or more agreements with Victory Midtown, LLC, or its designee, for the project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
apply for and accept a HUD 108
Empowerment Zone loan in an
amount up to $4,000,000, from the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development (”HUD”), to partially finance the tenant build-out portion of the overall redevelopment of
the Victory Building located at 7012
Euclid Avenue (the “Project”).
Section 2. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into a loan agreement with Victory Midtown, LLC, or its designee,
and any necessary related agreements, to provide economic development assistance to partially finance
the Project, and for other associated
costs necessary to redevelop the property.
Section 3. That the terms of the loan
shall be according to the terms set
forth in the Summary contained in
File No. 463-14-A, made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance Committee of
this Council at the public hearing on
this legislation, and are approved in
all respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 4. That the costs of the contract shall not exceed $4,000,000 and
shall be paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited the loan proceeds
received from HUD under this ordinance, which funds are appropriated
for this purpose.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept such collateral as set forth in
the file referenced above in order to
secure repayment of the loan. Any
loan agreement, security instrument,
or other document shall be prepared
and approved by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept monies in repayment of the
loan and to deposit the monies into a
fund designated by the Director of
Finance.
Section 7. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
charge and accept fees in an amount
not to exceed the maximum allowable
fees under federal regulations. The
fees shall be deposited to and expended from Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees
Fund.
Section 8. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed

The City Record
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 9. That the contract authorized in this legislation will require
the recipient of financial assistance
to work with, and/or cause their Tenants to work with, The Workforce
Investment Board for Workforce
Area No. 3 to identify and solicit qualified candidates for job opportunities
related to the City’s contracts, and
place special emphasis on the hard to
employ, including but not limited to
the disabled and persons who have
been convicted of or have pled guilty
to a criminal offense, unless the criminal conviction or related circumstances relate to the duties for the
particular job sought.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 720-14.
By Council Members Cleveland, K.
Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property to the Northeast Ohio Regional
Sewer District; and authorizing the
Director of Public Works to execute
deeds of easement and temporary
deeds of easement granting to Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District certain easement rights in property
bounded by Kinsman Road, East 79th
Street, Greater Cleveland Regional
Transit Authority railroad, and the
Norfolk Southern railroad for the
Sewer District’s Green Ambassador –
Urban Agriculture Green Infrastructure Project; and declaring the easement and property rights no longer
needed for the City’s use.
Whereas, the Director of Public
Works has requested the sale of the
City-owned property, Permanent Parcel No. 126-32-020A located along Kinsman Avenue, to the Northeast Ohio
Regional Sewer District (“NEORSD”)
necessary
for
NEORSD’s
Green
Ambassador – Urban Agriculture
Green Infrastructure Project (“Urban
Agriculture Project”); and
Whereas, NEORSD has requested
the Director of Public Works to convey certain temporary easement
rights in property located within the
Urban Agriculture Project which is
Kinsman Road to the south, East 79th
Street to the west, the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority
(RTA) railroad to the north, and the
Norfolk Southern railroad to the east,
to NEORSD (“Project Boundary”);
and
Whereas, NEORSD requires temporary easements needed for ingress,
egress, and construction purposes;
and
Whereas, both the City-owned property and the temporary and permanent easements located within the
Project Boundary are not needed for
the City’s use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for

1252

August 27, 2014
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapter 181 and 183 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, it
is found and determined the Cityowned property, Permanent Parcel
No. 126-32-020A, located along Kinsman Avenue, is no longer needed for
the City’s use and described as follows:
Permanent Parcel No. 126-32-020A
All That Property, situated in the
City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio, being at the intersection of US Route 422 (a.k.a. Kinsman Road) and East 82nd Street, and
being identified as follows:
Sublots 45, 46, 47, and 48 in William
Corlett, et al. subdivision of Sublot
Nos. 205 to 215 inclusive, 224 to 227
inclusive and part of Sublots 216, 217,
222 and 223 in Gill, et al. allotment of
part of Original 100 Acre Lot No. 431,
as shown by the recorded plat of said
subdivision in Volume 34 of Maps,
Page 28 of the Cuyahoga County
Records. This property conveyed
from Amanda L. Corlett ct vir., to The
Granite Improvement Company (predecessor of said Grantor) by deed
dated July 21, 1915, said deed recorded
on August 20, 1915 in the Recorder’s
Office of said Cuyahoga County in
Records Volume 1171, Page 116.
Sublots 42, 43, and 44 in William
Corlett, et al. subdivision of Sublot
Nos. 205 to 215 inclusive 224 to 227
inclusive and part of Sublots 216, 217,
222 and 223 in Gill, et al. allotment of
part of Original 100 Acre Lot No. 431,
as shown by recorded plat of said subdivision in Volume 34 of Maps, Page
28 of Cuyahoga County Records. This
property conveyed from Ann Jeanette
Corlett to The Granite Improvement
Company
(predecessor
of
said
Grantor) by deed dated July 21, 1915,
said deed recorded on August 20, 1915
in the Recorder’s Office of said Cuyahoga County in Records Volume 1711,
Page 118.
Excepting the portion of land conveyed to ODOT as right of way and
described in Penn Central deed to
State of Ohio as:
ALL THAT PARCEL of land situate in the City of Cleveland, County of
Cuyahoga and State of Ohio, being
part of Original Lot # 431, now in the
City of Cleveland and further being
Sublot Nos. 42 through 48 of the
William Corlett, et al, Subdivision as
shown by the recorded plat of Volume
#34, Page #28 of Maps, of Cuyahoga
County
Records,
bounded
and
described as follows:
BEGINNING in the Grantor’s Westerly property line and the Easterly
right-of-way line of East 82nd Street
(50 feet wide) at a point 58.28 feet left
of Station 13+66.37 in the centerline
of survey of U.S. Route # 422, Section
3.74, also known as Kinsman Road;
thence South 59 degrees 06 minutes 00
seconds East, a distance of 259.30 feet
to the Grantors’ Easterly property
line at a point 76.20 feet left of Station
16+25.04; thence South 00 degrees 17
minutes 07 seconds East, along said
Easterly property line, 35.12 feet to
the existing Northerly right-of-way
line of Kinsman Road at a point 47.49
feet left of Station 16+45.26; thence
North 56 degrees 41 minutes 12 seconds West, along said existing
Northerly right-of-way line 266.34

August 27, 2014
feet, more or less, to the existing
right-of-way line of East 82nd Street
at a point 40.29 feet left of Station
13+79.02 ; thence North 00 degrees 15
minutes 36 seconds West, along said
Easterly right-of-way line, 22.00 feet
to the place of beginning.
CONTAINING 6,336 square feet of
land, more or less, none of which is
occupied by the present road, be the
same more or less.
Section 2. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
easement interests in the following
described properties are not needed
for the City’s use:
Green Ambassador –
Urban Agriculture
Permanent Easements
PPN 126-31-001
PPN 126-31-060
PPN 126-31-061
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Oho,
and known as being all of Sub Lot No.
37 and parts of Sub Lots Nos. 36 and 39
in Walkey and Betts’ Subdivison of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 423, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 11 of Maps, Page 21 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
together forming a parcel of land
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 82nd Street (formerly Corlett
Avenue) at its intersection with the
Southerly line of Fort Avenue S.E., as
dedicated by plat recorded in Volume
63 of Maps, Page 19 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Easterly
along the Southerly line of Fort
Avenue S.E., about 256 feet to the
Westerly line of East 83rd Street (formerly Garretson Avenue); thence
Southerly along the Westerly line of
East 83rd Street, about 65.67 feet to
the Southeasterly corner of said Sub
Lot No. 37; thence Westerly along the
Southerly line of Sub Lot No. 37; 127
feet to the Southwesterly corner
thereof; thence Northerly along the
Westerly line of Sub Lot No. 37, 31 feet
11 inches to the Northwesterly corner
thereof being also the Southeasterly
corner of said Sub Lot No. 39; thence
Westerly along the Southerly line of
Sub Lot No. 39, 127 feet to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject to
all legal highways.
PPN 126-31-002
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lot No.
38 in Walkey and Bett’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 423, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 11 of Maps, Page 21 of
Cuyahoga County Records, and being
33 feet 2 inches front on the Easterly
side of East 82nd Street (formerly
Corlett Avenue) and extending back
127 feet deep on the Northerly line, 127
feet deep on the Southerly line, and
having a rear line of 31 feet 11 inches,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
PPN 126-31-003
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly part of the Sub Lot No. 168 In Gill,
Brainard, Hower and Higbee’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 423, 424, 431 and

The City Record
432, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 5 of Maps, Page 37 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 38
feet 10 inches front on the Easterly
side of East 82nd Street (formerly
Chadwick Street) and extending back
152 feet on the Northerly line, 154 feet
on the Southerly line, and having a
rear line of about 38 feet 10 inches, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
PPN 126-31-004
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lot No.
1 in the J. E. Latimer Re-Subdivision
of part of Gill, Brainard, Hower and
Higbee’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 423,
424, 431 and 432, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 23 of Maps,
Page 19 of Cuyahoga County Records,
and being 34.83 feet front on the Easterly side of East 82nd St. (formerly
Chadwick St.) and extending back of
equal width 126 feet deep, and having
a rear line of 34.83 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
PPN 126-31-053
PPN 126-31-054
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lots
Nos. 13 and 14 in J. E. Latimer’s
ResSubdivision of Sub Lots Nos. 135 to
142 inclusive, and Sub Lots Nos. 169 to
175 inclusive, in Gill, Brainard, Hower
& Higbee’s Subdivision of a part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos.
423 to 431, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 23 of Maps, Page 19 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
together forming a parcel of land having a frontage of 64 feet on the Westerly side of East 83rd Street, and
extending back of equal width 127.62
feet deep, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject to
all legal highways.
PPN 126-31-055
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 31 feet front to rear of Sub
Lot No. 15 in the J. E. Latimer Re-Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 423, 424, 431 and
432, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 23 of Maps, Page 19 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 31
feet front on the Westerly side of East
83rd Street, and extending back of
equal width 127.62 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less but
subject to all legal highways.
PPN 126-31-056
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 30 feet of Sub Lot No. 16 and
one foot off the Northerly side of Sub
Lot No. 15 in J. E. Latimer’s Re-Subdivision of part of Gill, Brainard, Hower
and Higbee’s Allotment of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos.
423, 424, 431 and 432, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 23 of Maps,
Page 19 of Cuyahoga County Records,
and together forming a parcel of land
having a frontage of 31 feet on the
Westerly side of East 83rd Street (formerly Garretson Street), and extending back of equal width 127.62 feet
deep, as appears by said plat, be the

1253

65
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
PPN 126-31-057
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 29 feet of Sub Lot No. 17 and
the Northerly 2 feet of Sub Lot No. 16
in J. E. Latimer’s ReSubdivision of
part of Gill, Brainard, Hower and Higbee’s Allotment of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 423, 424,
431 and 432, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 23 of Maps, Page 19 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
together forming a parcel of land having a frontage of 31 feet on the Westerly side of East 83rd Street (formerly
Garretson Street), and extending
back of equal width, 127.62 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
PPN 126-31-058
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of Sub
Lot No. 18 and the Northerly 3 feet of
Sub Lot No. 17 in J. E. Latimer’s
ReSubdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 423 and 431,
as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 23 of Maps, Page 19 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and together forming a parcel of land 35 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 83rd Street
(formerly Garretson Street), and
extending back of equal width 127.62
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less but subject to all
legal highways.
PPN 126-31-059
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly 100 feet of Sub Lot No. 168 in Gill,
Brainard, Hower and Higbee’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 423, 424, 431 and
432, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 5 of Maps, Page 37 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 39
feet 3 1/4 inches front on the Westerly
side of East 83rd Street (formerly Garretson Avenue), and extending back
100 feet on the Northerly line, 100 feet
on the Southerly line, and having a
rear line of about 38 feet 10 inches, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
temporary easement interests in the
following described properties are
not needed for the City’s use:
Green Ambassador –
Urban Agriculture
Temporary Easements
PPN 126-31-049
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lot No.
9 in the J. E. Latimer Re-Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 423, 424, 431 and 432, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume
23 of Maps, Page 19 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and being 32 feet
front on the Northerly side of Gill
Avenue S. E. and extending back of
equal width 87.83 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.

66
PPN 126-31-050
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lot No.
10 in J. E. Latimer’s Re-Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 423 and 431, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 23 of Maps,
Page 19 of Cuyahoga County Records,
and being 32 feet front on the Northerly side of Gill Avenue, S. E., and
extending back of equal width 87.83
feet deep, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject to
all legal highways.
PPN 126-31-051
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lot No.
11 in J. E. Latimer’s Re-subdivision of
Sub Lots Nos. 135 to 142 inclusive, and
Sub Lots Nos. 169 to 175 inclusive in
Gill, Brainard, Hower and Higbee’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 423 to 431, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume
23 of Maps, Page 19 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and being 32 feet
front on the Northerly side of Gill
Ave., S. E., and extending back of
equal width 87.83 feet deep, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
PPN 126-31-052
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lot No.
12 in Jay E. Latimer’s Re-subdivision
of part of Original One hundred Acre
Lots Nos 423 and 431, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 23 of Maps,
Page 19 of Cuyahoga County Records,
and being 31.62 feet front on the
Northerly side of Gill Avenue S.E.,
and extending back 87.83 feet deep on
the Westerly line, 87.83 feet deep on
the Easterly line, which is also the
Westerly line of East 83rd Street, (formerly Garretson Avenue), and 31.62
feet wide in the rear, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 4. That the easements and
temporary easements shall be nonexclusive and the purpose of the easements shall be to assist NEORSD with
implementing its Urban Agriculture
Project.
Section 5. That the duration of the
easements shall be perpetual; that the
duration of the temporary easements
shall be until the Urban Agriculture
Project is completed; that the easements and temporary easements may
include reasonable right of entry
rights to the City; that the easements
and temporary easements shall not be
assignable without the consent of the
Director of Public Works; that the
easements and temporary easements
shall require that NEORSD maintain
any NEORSD improvements located
within the easements and the temporary easements, and pay any applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 6. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to convey the abovedescribed property, and non-exclusive
easements and temporary interests to
NEORSD subject to any conditions
stated in this ordinance at a price
determined to be fair market value by
the Board of Control.
Section 7. That the conveyance to
sell Permanent Parcel No. 126-32-020A

The City Record
shall be made by quitclaim deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the Director of Public Works
on behalf of the City of Cleveland.
The deed shall contain necessary provisions, including restrictive reversionary interests as may be specified
by the Board of Control or Director of
Law, which shall protect the parties
as their respective interests require.
Section 8. That the conveyances
referred to above shall be made by
official deeds of easement and official deeds of temporary easement prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the Director of Works on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deeds of easement and the deeds of
temporary easement shall contain
any additional terms and conditions
as are required to protect the interest
of the City. The Directors of Public
Works and Law are authorized to execute any other documents, including
without limitation, contracts for right
of entry, as may be necessary to effect
the implementation of the Urban
Agriculture Project within the properties described in this ordinance.
Section 9. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements necessary to
effectuate the real estate transactions authorized in this ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 721-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors Public Utilities and
Public Works to execute deeds of
easement granting to the Northeast
Ohio Regional Sewer District certain
easement rights in portions of a Cityowned property located on Henninger
Road and Wildlife Way, a City-owned
undedicated roadway, and declaring
the easement rights no longer needed
for the City’s use.
Whereas,
the
Northeast
Ohio
Regional Sewer District (“NEORSD”)
has requested the Directors of Public
Utilities and Public Works to convey
certain easement rights in portions of
a City-owned property located on Henninger Road and Wildlife Way, a
City-owned undedicated roadway, for
the purpose of implementing its Combined Sewer Overflow (CSO) Project
049/050 (“CSO”); and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
easement interests in the following
described properties are no longer
needed for the City’s use:

1254

August 27, 2014
CSO 049/050 Relocation
Permanent Sewer Easement No. 10
Across Parcel No. 009-11-014
0.0529 Acres
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Sublot
Nos. 7 and 8 in J. Henninger Heirs
Allotment of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 64 as recorded in
Volume 15, Page 17 of the Cuyahoga
County Map Records. Also being part
of the land conveyed to City of Cleveland as recorded in Volume 5804, Page
208 of the Cuyahoga County Records,
being more definitely described as
follows;
Commencing at the intersection of
the northwesterly line of said Sublot
No. 7 and the northerly right of way of
Henninger Road (50.00 feet wide);
Thence, along the northwesterly
line of said Sublot No. 7, North 23° 06'
18" East, 110.47 feet to the True Point
of Beginning for the easement herein
described;
Thence, continuing along the northwesterly line of said Sublot No. 7,
North 23° 06' 18" East, 25.40 feet;
Thence, leaving the northwesterly
line of said Sublot No. 7, along the arc
of a curve which deflects to the right,
112.49 feet to the southeasterly line of
said Sublot No. 8, said curve having a
radius of 430.00 feet, a central angle
of 14° 59' 20", and a chord of 112.17
feet which bears South 22° 23' 10"
East;
Thence, along the southeasterly
line of said Sublot No. 8, South 23° 06'
18" West, 32.95 feet;
Thence, leaving the southeasterly
line of said Sublot No. 8, North 14° 11'
51" West, 21.00 feet;
Thence, along the arc of a curve
which deflects to the left, 96.93 feet to
the point of beginning, said curve
having a radius of 410.00 feet, a central angle of 13° 32' 43", and a chord
of 96.70 feet which bears North 20° 58'
12" West.
Containing within said bounds
0.0529 acres of land as surveyed by KS
Associates, Inc. under the supervision
of Trevor A. Bixler, Professional Surveyor, No. 7730 in October 2012.
Bearings are based on Ohio State
Plane, North Zone NAD83(CORS) Grid
North.
CSO 049/050 Relocation
Permanent Sewer Easement No. 2
Across Parcel No. 014-23-001
0.0324 Acres
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 64. Also
being part of the land conveyed to the
City of Cleveland as recorded in Volume 583, Page 86 of the Cuyahoga
County Records, being more definitely described as follows;
Commencing at the intersection of
the northerly right of way of Henninger Road and the westerly right of
way of Pearl Road;
Thence, along the westerly right of
way of Pearl Road, North 24° 38' 40"
East, 131.00 feet;
Thence, continuing along the westerly right of way Pearl Road, North
24° 37' 22" East, 210.86 feet to the
southerly line of said land conveyed
to the City of Cleveland and the True
Point of Beginning for the easement
herein described;
Thence, along City of Cleveland’s
southerly line, along the arc of a
curve which deflects to the left, 9.23
feet, said curve having a radius of

August 27, 2014
189.98 feet, a central angle of 02° 47'
05", and a chord of 9.23 feet which
bears North 68° 47' 18" West;
Thence, leaving said southerly line,
North 08° 17' 20" West, 76.51 feet to
the northerly line of said land conveyed to the City of Cleveland;
Thence, along City of Cleveland’s
northerly line, along the arc of a
curve which deflects to the right,
21.66 feet, said curve having a radius
of 259.98 feet, a central angle of 04°
46' 23", and a chord of 21.65 feet which
bears South 75° 45' 51" East;
Thence, leaving said northerly line,
South 08° 17' 20" East, 54.28 feet to the
westerly right of way of Pearl Road;
Thence, along the westerly right of
way of Pearl Road, South 24° 37' 22"
West, 22.02 feet to the point of beginning.
Containing within said bounds
0.0324 acres of land as surveyed by KS
Associates, Inc. under the supervision
of Trevor A. Bixler, Professional Surveyor, No. 7730 in October 2012.
Bearings are based on Ohio State
Plane, North Zone NAD83(CORS) Grid
North.
Section 2. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to convey the abovedescribed easement interests to
NEORSD, subject to any conditions
stated, at a price not less than fair
market value as determined by the
Board of Control.
Section 3. That the easements shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be to allow
NEORSD to implement their CSO.
Section 4. That the duration of the
easements shall be permanent; that
the easements may include right-ofentry rights to the City; that the easements shall require that NEORSD
maintain any NEORSD improvements
located within the easements, and
pay any applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 5. That the conveyances
referred to above shall be made by
official deeds of easement prepared
by the Director of Law and executed
by the Directors of Public Utilities
and Public Works on behalf of the
City of Cleveland. The deeds of easement shall contain such additional
terms and conditions as are required
to protect the interests of the City.
The Directors of Public Utilities, Public Works, and Law are authorized to
execute such other documents, including without limitation, contracts for
right-of entry, as may be necessary to
effect this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 799-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio
Environmental
Protection
Agency for the 2014 Litter Clean Up
and Tire Amnesty Program; and

The City Record
authorizing the Director to enter into
one or more contracts with the Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District and
with various agencies, entities, or
individuals to implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the amount up
to $40,000, from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency for the 2014 Litter Clean Up and Tire Amnesty Program; that the Director is authorized
to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds
under the grant; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
described in the application for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the application for
the grant, presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at a public
hearing on this legislation and set
forth in File No. 799-14-A, is made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, including the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide cash
matching funds in the amount of
$4,445.00, payable from Fund No. 017011-6397, is approved in all respects,
and shall not be changed without
additional
legislative
authority.
(RQS 7011, RL 2014-89).
Section 3. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into
contract with the Cuyahoga County
Solid Waste District, and with various
agencies, entities, or individuals to
implement the grant as described in
the file.
Section 4. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(B) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Works may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process. The contracts will be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited any grant
funds accepted under this ordinance
and from the cash match.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 829-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Cuyahoga County Board of Health for
the 2015 Immunization Action Plan
Program; authorizing the Director to
charge and accept fees for this program; and authorizing one or more
agreements with Medicaid and Medicaid HMOs for the City to receive payments.

1255

67
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $95,340, and any other
funds as they become available during the grant term, from the Cuyahoga County Board of Health, to conduct the 2015 Immunization Action
Plan Program; that the Director of
Public Health is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes in the
summary and budget for the grant.
Section 2. That the summary and
budget for the grant, presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
a public hearing on this legislation
and set forth in File No. 829-14-A, is
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, including the obligation to devote program income from
third-party billings, estimated at
$1,000, is approved in all respects, and
shall not be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with Medicaid and Medicaid HMOs to receive
payments under this ordinance.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to charge and
accept fees from participants of this
program and to deposit those fees into
a revolving fund which will be used to
provide additional materials equipment, supplies, and services under the
program described in the file, and the
funds are appropriated for that purpose.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 7. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process. The contracts will be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited any grant
funds and program income accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

68
Ord. No. 830-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
Cuyahoga County Solid Waste Management District for the 2015 Solid
Waste Disposal Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $70,000, and any other
funds that may become available during the grant term, from the Cuyahoga County Solid Waste Management District to conduct the 2015 Solid
Waste Disposal Program; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the Summary for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the Summary for the
grant, File No. 830-14-A, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as
presented to the Finance Committee
of this Council at the public hearing
on this legislation, is approved in all
respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process. The contracts will be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited any grant
funds accepted under this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 831-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more contracts with
BIG Wireless, LLC for professional
services necessary to provide Level 3

The City Record
support and maintenance on communication links between buildings and
towers having existing point-to-point
links, and for remote monitoring,
spare or replacement parts and equipment, hardware upgrades, and labor
if necessary, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with BIG Wireless, LLC for professional services
necessary to provide Level 3 support
and maintenance on communication
links between buildings and towers
having existing point-to-point links,
and for remote monitoring, spare or
replacement parts and equipment,
hardware upgrades, and labor if necessary, in the total sum of $83,000, for
the Department of Public Utilities, for
a period of one year. The contract or
contracts shall be paid from Fund No.
52 SF 001, Request No. RQS 2002, RL
2014-68.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 836-14.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to WSCH, LLC to
encroach into the public right-of-way
of 3000 Bridge Avenue N.W. by
installing, using, and maintaining an
entry-area ADA ramp and stair.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit, revocable at the will of Council, to WSCH, LLC, 3000 Bridge
Avenue N.W. Cleveland, Ohio 44113
(“Permittee”), to encroach into the
public right-of-way of Bridge Avenue
N.W. by installing, using, and maintaining an entry-area ADA ramp and
stair, at the following location:
Handicap Ramp Encroachment
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being an area
inside the right of way of Bridge
Avenue, a 66' right of way, said point
being contiguous with the southerly
line of Sublot Numbers 54 and 55 of
the Severance and Folsom’s Subdivision and part of Original Lots No. 52 in
the Township of Brooklyn.
Commencing at a point witnessed
by a record 5/8" capped iron rod
stamped “Welch’s Clev. 6370” at the
most Northeasterly corner of said
Sublot No. 54 and on the westerly

1256

August 27, 2014
right of way of West 30th Street, 66
feet wide; thence S 31°37'02" E,
107.80' more or less along said westerly Right of Way of West 30th Street
to a point of intersection with the
northerly Right of Way of Bridge
Avenue, 66 feet wide, said point being
referenced by an encroaching building corner South 0.05 feet and East
0.42 feet; thence S 58°13'11" W, 12.93'
along said northerly Right of Way of
Bridge Avenue to the true point of
beginning;
1.) Thence S 31°46'49" E, 5.68' to a
point;
2.) Thence S 58°11'55" W, 26.06'
parallel with the north line of said
Bridge Avenue to a point;
3.) Thence N 31°46'49" W, 5.69' to a
point on the south line of said Bridge
Avenue;
4.) Thence N 58°13'11" E, 25.06'
along the south line of said Bridge
Avenue to the true point of beginning.
The above described handicap
ramp easement contains 0.0043 acres
which is in the Right of Way of said
Bridge Avenue as geometrically
described from record data from a survey by the Atwell Group of Solon Ohio
dated 9/20/2012 and not physically
surveyed by H. David Laurila, P.S.
7663 of Laurila Surveying on May 19,
2014.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Capital Projects. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans and
specifications first approved by the
Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain
all other required permits, including
but not limited to Building Permits,
before
installing
the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
a prospective Permittee has properly
indemnified the City against any loss
that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry
to
the
encroachment
location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 838-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to exercise the third option to renew Contract No. MA 1511 RC2010-118 with
Software House International to provide Microsoft licenses for the various
divisions of City government.

August 27, 2014
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 804-10, passed July 14,
2010, the Director of Finance entered
into Contract No. MA 1511 RC2010-118
with Software House International to
provide Microsoft licenses for the various divisions of City government;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 804-10
requires further legislation before
exercising the third option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to exercise the
third option to renew Contract No. MA
1511 RC2010-118 for an additional year
in the approximate of $1,637,750.00, for
the requirements for an additional
year of Microsoft licenses for the various divisions of City government.
This ordinance constitutes the additional legislative authority required
by Ordinance No. 804-10 to exercise
this option. (RQN 1511 RL 2014-34)
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 843-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli, Kelley and Cimperman
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
final consent of the City of Cleveland
to the State of Ohio for the removal
and replacement of the Canal Road
Bridge; authorizing the Director of
Capital Projects to enter into contracts with the State of Ohio; and
causing payment to the State of Ohio
for the City’s share of the improvement.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 161210, passed February 7, 2011, as amended by Ordinance No. 1097-11, passed
September 19, 2011 and Ordinance No.
1716-12, passed February 11, 2013 this
Council authorized the City of Cleveland to cooperate with the Director of
Transportation for the removal and
replacement of the Canal Road
Bridge, PID 89064, over CSX Railroad
and under the Norfolk and Southern
Railroad (the “Improvement”); and
Whereas, the City shall cooperate
with the Ohio Director of Transportation in the above described project by
assuming and bearing one hundred
percent (100%) of the cost of the
entire cost of the Improvement, less
the amount of Federal-aid funds,
including NOACA, set aside by the
Director of Transportation for the
financing of this improvement from
funds allocated by the Federal Highway Administration, U.S. Department
of Transportation, and further, the
City agrees to assume and bear one
hundred percent (100%) of the cost of
Preliminary Engineering and rightof-way, excluding in-house preliminary engineering and right-of-way
charges incurred by the State; and

The City Record
Whereas, the share of the City’s
cost of the Improvement is now estimated to be $809,462, but may be
adjusted when the percentages of
actual costs are determined; and
Whereas, the City agrees to assume
and contribute 100% of the cost of any
items included in the construction
contract at the request of the City,
which are determined by the State not
eligible or made necessary by the
Improvement; and
Whereas, the Ohio Director of
Transportation has approved the legislation proposing cooperation and
has caused to be made plans and specifications and an estimate of costs
and expense for the Improvement and
has transmitted copies of the same to
this legislative authority; and
Whereas, the City desires the Ohio
Director of Transportation to proceed
with the Improvement; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
requests the Ohio Director of Transportation
to
proceed
with
the
Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
contracts with the State and/or their
pre-qualified consultants for the preliminary engineering phase of the
Project, and to enter into contracts
with the Director of Transportation
necessary to complete the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized and directed to transmit
to the State three (3) certified copies
of this ordinance immediately on its
taking effect, and it shall become the
basis
for
proceeding
with
the
Improvement.
Section 4. That this Council is
authorized to cause payment to the
State of the City’s share of the
Improvement, payable from Fund
Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF 534, 20
SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, 20 SF 563,
52 SF 001, and 54 SF 001, RQS 0103, RL
2014-90.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 844-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
execute a deed of easement and a temporary deed of easement granting to
Cuyahoga County certain easement
rights in property located on East
49th Street and declaring the easement rights not needed for the City’s
public use.
Whereas, Cuyahoga County (the
“County”) has requested the Director
of Public Works to convey certain
easement rights and temporary easement rights in property located on
East 49th Street and known as Permanent Parcel No. 131-16-027; and

1257

69
Whereas, the County requires the
easement rights on East 49th Street
for the rehabilitation of East 49th
Street Bridge at Morgana Run Trail
Project; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
an easement interest in the following
described property is not needed for
the City’s public use:
PARCEL #2-SH
EAST 49TH STREET (C.R. 378)
BRIDGE NO. 00.54
STANDARD HIGHWAY EASEMENT
TO CONSTRUCT AND MAINTAIN
A STONE WING WALL, FOR
SUBSURFACE DRAINAGE
AND FOR SLOPE
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
being part of the Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 320 and being 0.0119 acres
PERMANENT EASEMENT #2-SH for
Bridge No. 00.54 located within a
record parcel of land as conveyed to
City of Cleveland by deed dated February 1, 2005 as recorded in AFN
200502010335 of Cuyahoga County
Records and more particularly bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a 1" iron pin in a monument box found at an angle point on
the centerline of East 49th Street, said
point being at Station 11+07.92 on the
centerline of right-of-way of East 49th
Street as shown on the Centerline
Schematic Plan (Sheet 2 of 5) of the
Right-of –Way Plans for East 49th
Street (C.R. 378), County Project #M5018 as recorded in Volume 375, Page
82 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence South 09°01'05" East, along
the centerline of said East 49th Street
a distance of 153.56 feet to a point,
said point being at Station 9+54.56 on
the centerline of said East 49th Street;
Thence North 80°58'55" East, a distance of 30.00 feet to a point, said
point being 30.00 feet right of Station
9+54.56 on the centerline of said East
49th Street and the TRUE POINT OF
BEGINNING of the herein described
tract of land;
01. Thence South 66°08'57" East, a
distance of 32.49 feet to a point, said
point being 57.29 feet right of Station
9+36.92 on the centerline of said East
49th Street;
02. Thence South 24°47'57" West, a
distance of 14.35 feet to a point, said
point being 49.30 feet right of Station
9+25.00 on the centerline of said East
49th Street;
03. Thence South 80°58'55" West, a
distance of 19.30 feet to a point, said
point being 30.00 feet right of Station
9+25.00 on the centerline of said East
49th Street;
04. Thence North 09°01'05" West, a
distance of 29.56 feet to the TRUE
POINT OF BEGINNING and containing, more or less 0.0119 acres (518 sq.
ft.), and subject to all legal easements, restrictions, reservations, conditions and rights-of-way of previous
record.
Basis of Bearing for this legal
description is North 09°01'05" West as
the centerline of East 49th Street as
evidenced by monuments found and is

70
the same as calculated and reproduced based on using Ohio State
Plane Coordinate System, North Zone
(NAD83-1995) Datum by ties to the
O.D.O.T. CORS Network using GRAF
and are for the purpose of indicating
variations;
The stations referred to herein are
from the centerline of right-of-way of
East 49th Street (C.R. 378) Bridge No.
00.54 in the City of Cleveland, as
shown on the Centerline Schematic
Plan of the Right-of-Way Plans for
East 49th Street (C.R. 378) Bridge No.
00.54.
This description was prepared
under
the
supervision
of
and
reviewed by Adam D. Treat P.S. #8058
from a survey made under the supervision of Adam D. Treat P.S. #8058 for
Michael Benza & Associates in conjunction with the Cuyahoga County
Plan East 49th Street Bridge (C.R.
378) Bridge No. 00.54.
PARCEL #2-SH-1
EAST 49TH STREET (C.R. 378)
BRIDGE NO. 00.54
STANDARD HIGHWAY EASEMENT
TO CONSTRUCT AND MAINTAIN A
BRIDGE STRUCTURE
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
being part of the Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 320 and being 0.0140 acres
PERMANENT STANDARD HIGHWAY EASEMENT #2-SH-1 for Bridge
No. 00.54 located within a record parcel of land as conveyed to City of
Cleveland by deed dated February 1,
2005, as recorded in AFN 200502010335
of Cuyahoga County Records and
more
particularly
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning at a 1" iron pin in a monument box found at an angle point on
the centerline of East 49th Street, said
point being at Station 11+07.92 on the
centerline of right-of-way of East 49th
Street as shown on the Centerline
Schematic Plan (Sheet 2 of 5) of the
Right-of –Way Plans for East 49th
Street (C.R. 378), County Project #M5018 as recorded in Volume 375, Page
82 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence South 09°01'05" East, along
the centerline of said East 49th Street
a distance of 70.12 feet to a point, said
point being at Station 10+37.80 on the
centerline of said East 49th Street;
Thence North 80°58'55" East, a distance of 25.00 feet to a point on the
easterly line of East 49th Street and
the southwesterly corner of a parcel
of land conveyed to Ted & Tom, LLC
by the recorded deed in AFN
200806260175 of Cuyahoga County
Records and the northwesterly corner
of said City of Cleveland parcel, said
point being 25.00 feet right of Station
10+37.80 on the centerline of said
East 49th Street and the TRUE POINT
OF
BEGINNING
of
the
herein
described tract of land;
05. Thence along the arc of a curve,
deflecting to the left, along the
southerly line of said Ted & Tom, LLC
parcel and the northerly line of said
City of Cleveland parcel, an arc distance of 6.26 feet to a point, said point
being 30.00 feet right of Station
10+34.03 on the centerline of said
East 49th Street, said arc having a
radius of 1096.28 feet, a central angle
of 0°19'38" and a chord of 6.26 feet
which bears South 62°00'10" East;
06. Thence South 09°01'05" East, a
distance of 122.17 feet to a point on the
southerly line of said City of Cleveland parcel and the northerly line of a
parcel of land conveyed to Cleveland

The City Record
Central Enterprises Corp. by the
recorded deed in Volume 93-12058,
Page 54 of Cuyahoga County Records,
said point being 30.00 feet right of Station 9+11.86 on the centerline of said
East 49th Street;
07. Thence along the arc of a curve,
deflecting to the right, along the
southerly line of said City of Cleveland parcel and the northerly line of
said Cleveland Central Enterprises
Corp. parcel, an arc distance of 5.99
feet to a point, said point being on the
easterly line of said East 49th Street
and the southwesterly corner of said
City of Cleveland parcel and the
northwesterly corner of said Cleveland Central Enterprises Corp. parcel,
said point being 25.00 feet right of Station 9+15.17 on the centerline of said
East 49th Street, said arc having a
radius of 1196.28 feet, a central angle
of 0°17'14" and a chord of 5.99 feet
which bears North 65°32'03" West;
08. Thence North 09°01'05" West,
along the easterly line of said East
49th Street and the westerly line of
the said City of Cleveland parcel, a
distance of 122.63 feet to the TRUE
POINT OF BEGINNING and containing, more or less 0.0140 acres (612 sq.
ft.), and subject to all legal easements, restrictions, reservations, conditions and rights-of-way of previous
record.
Basis of Bearing for this legal
description is North 09°01'05" West as
the centerline of East 49th Street as
evidenced by monuments found and is
the same as calculated and reproduced based on using Ohio State
Plane Coordinate System, North Zone
(NAD83-1995) Datum by ties to the
O.D.O.T. CORS Network using GRAF
and are for the purpose of indicating
variations;
The stations referred to herein are
from the centerline of right-of-way of
East 49th Street (C.R. 378) Bridge No.
00.54 in the City of Cleveland, as
shown on the Centerline Schematic
Plan of the Right-of-Way Plans for
East 49th Street (C.R. 378) Bridge No.
00.54.
This description was prepared
under
the
supervision
of
and
reviewed by Adam D. Treat P.S. #8058
from a survey made under the supervision of Adam D. Treat P.S. #8058 for
Michael Benza & Associates in conjunction with the Cuyahoga County
Plan East 49th Street (C.R. 378)
Bridge No. 00.54.
Section 2. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that a
temporary easement interest in the
following described property is not
needed for the City’s public use:
PARCEL #2-T
EAST 49TH STREET (C.R. 378)
BRIDGE NO. 00.54
TEMPORARY EASEMENT FOR
BRIDGE REHABILITATION
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
being part of the Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 320 and being 0.1425 acres
TEMPORARY EASEMENT #2-T for
Bridge No. 00.54 located within a
record parcel of land as conveyed to
City of Cleveland by deed dated February 1, 2005, as recorded in AFN
200502010335 of Cuyahoga County
Records and more particularly bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a 1" iron pin in a monument box found at an angle point on

1258

August 27, 2014
the centerline of East 49th Street, said
point being at Station 11+07.92 on the
centerline of right-of-way of East 49th
Street as shown on the Centerline
Schematic Plan (Sheet 2 of 5) of the
Right-of –Way Plans for East 49th
Street (C.R. 378), County Project #M5018 as recorded in Volume 375, Page
82 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence South 09°01'05" East, along
the centerline of said East 49th Street
a distance of 70.12 feet to a point, said
point being at Station 10+37.80 on the
centerline of said East 49th Street;
Thence North 80°58'55" East, a distance of 25.00 feet to a point on the
easterly line of East 49th Street and
the southwesterly corner of a parcel
of land conveyed to Ted & Tom, LLC
by the recorded deed in AFN
200806260175 of Cuyahoga County
Records and the northwesterly corner
of said City of Cleveland parcel, said
point being 25.00 feet right of Station
10+37.80 on the centerline of said
East 49th Street
Thence along the arc of a curve,
deflecting to the left, along the
southerly line of said Ted & Tom, LLC
parcel and the northerly line of said
City of Cleveland parcel, an arc distance of 6.26 feet to a point, said point
being 30.00 feet right of Station
10+34.03 on the centerline of said
East 49th Street, said arc having a
radius of 1096.28 feet, a central angle
of 0°19'38" and a chord of 6.26 feet
which bears South 62°00'10" East and
the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of
the herein described tract of land;
01. Thence continuing along the arc
of a curve, deflecting to the left, along
the southerly line of said Ted & Tom,
LLC parcel and the northerly line of
said City of Cleveland parcel, an arc
distance of 68.63 feet to a point, said
point being 86.17 feet right of Station
9+94.62 on the centerline of said East
49th Street, said arc having a radius
of 1096.28 feet, a central angle of
3°35'13" and a chord of 68.62 feet
which bears South 63°57'35" East;
02. Thence South 09°01'05" East, a
distance of 117.52 feet to a point on the
southerly line of said City of Cleveland parcel and the northerly line of a
parcel of land conveyed to Cleveland
Central Enterprises Corp. by the
recorded deed in Volume 93-12058,
Page 54 of Cuyahoga County Records,
said point being 86.17 feet right of Station 8+77.09 on the centerline of said
East 49th Street;
03. Thence along the arc of a curve,
deflecting to the right, along the
southerly line of said City of Cleveland parcel and the northerly line of
said Cleveland Central Enterprises
Corp. parcel, an arc distance of 66.07
feet to a point, said point being 30.00
feet right of Station 9+11.86 on the
centerline of said East 49th Street,
said arc having a radius of 1196.28
feet, a central angle of 3°09'52" and a
chord of 66.06 feet which bears North
67°15'35" West;
04. Thence North 09°01'05" West, a
distance of 13.14 feet to a point, said
point being 30.00 feet right of Station
9+25.00 on the centerline of said East
49th Street;
05. Thence North 80°58'55" East, a
distance of 19.30 feet to a point, said
point being 49.30 feet right of Station
9+25.00 on the centerline of said East
49th Street;
06. Thence North 24°47'57" East, a
distance of 14.35 feet to a point, said
point being 57.29 feet right of Station
9+36.92 on the centerline of said East
49th Street;

August 27, 2014
07. Thence North 66°08'57" West, a
distance of 32.49 feet to a point, said
point being 30.00 feet right of Station
9+54.56 on the centerline of said East
49th Street;
08. Thence North 09°01'05" West, a
distance of 79.47 feet to the TRUE
POINT OF BEGINNING and containing, more or less 0.1425 acres (6209 sq.
ft.), and subject to all legal easements, restrictions, reservations, conditions and rights-of-way of previous
record.
Basis of Bearing for this legal
description is North 09°01'05" West as
the centerline of East 49th Street as
evidenced by monuments found and is
the same as calculated and reproduced based on using Ohio State
Plane Coordinate System, North Zone
(NAD83-1995) Datum by ties to the
O.D.O.T. CORS Network using GRAF
and are for the purpose of indicating
variations;
The stations referred to herein are
from the centerline of right-of-way of
East 49th Street (C.R. 378) Bridge No.
00.54 in the City of Cleveland, as
shown on the Centerline Schematic
Plan of the Right-of-Way Plans for
East 49th Street (C.R. 378) Bridge No.
00.54.
This description was prepared
under
the
supervision
of
and
reviewed by Adam D. Treat P.S. #8058
from a survey made under the supervision of Adam D. Treat P.S. #8058 for
Michael Benza & Associates in conjunction with the Cuyahoga County
Plan East 49th Street (C.R. 378)
Bridge No. 00.54.
Section 3. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to convey the abovedescribed non-exclusive easement
interest and the non-exclusive temporary easement to the County subject
to any conditions stated in this ordinance at a price of $1,364 and other
valuable considerations, which is
determined to be fair market value.
Section 4. That the easement and
temporary easement shall be nonexclusive and the purpose of the easements shall be for the rehabilitation
of East 49th Street Bridge at Morgana
Run Trail Project.
Section 5. That the duration of the
easement shall be perpetual; that the
duration of the temporary easement
shall be until the rehabilitation of
East 49th Street Bridge at Morgana
Run Trail Project is completed; that
the easement and temporary easement may include reasonable right of
entry rights to the City; that the easement and temporary easement shall
not be assignable without the consent
of the Director of Public Works; that
the easement and temporary easement shall require that the County
provide reasonable insurance, and
pay any applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 6. That the conveyances
referred to above shall be made by
official deed of easement and official
deed of temporary easement prepared
by the Director of Law and executed
by the Director of Public Works on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed of easement and the deed of temporary easement shall contain any
additional terms and conditions as
are required to protect the interest of
the City. The Directors of Public
Works and Law are authorized to execute any other documents, including
without limitation, contracts for right
of entry, as may be necessary to effect

The City Record
the rehabilitation of East 49th Street
Bridge at Morgana Run Trail Project
within the property described in this
ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 845-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more contracts with
Employee Benefits International for
professional services necessary to
continue to evaluate the internal
operational procedures and administrative processes for the City of Cleveland Self-Insured Employee Healthcare Benefits Plan, including the
evaluation of the policies and procedures involving the City of Cleveland
Prisoner Healthcare administration.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Employee
Benefits for professional services necessary to continue to evaluate the
internal operational procedures and
administrative processes for the City
of Cleveland Self-Insured Employee
Healthcare Benefits Plan, including
the evaluation of the policies and procedures involving the City of Cleveland Prisoner Healthcare administration, in an amount not to exceed
$75,000.00, for the Department of
Finance. The contract or contracts
shall be paid from Fund No. 70 SF 201,
Request No. RQS 0402, RL 2014-92.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 846-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into one or more Leases By Way of Concession with the
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization, the Cleveland
Public Theatre, and the Near West
Theater, Inc., or their designees, for
maintaining and operating surface
parking lots at various locations
within the Gordon Square Parking
Master Plan, for a period of twenty
years.

1259

71
Whereas, on June 9, 2008 this Council passed Ordinance No. 872-08 authorizing the acquisition of property and
the making of public infrastructure
and parking lot improvements to
implement the Gordon Square Arts
District Parking Plan; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Director of Community
Development is authorized to enter
into one or more Leases By Way of
Concession with the Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization, or its designee, for maintaining and operating surface parking lots at the following locations:
Property located on the eastern side
of West 65th Street, known as Permanent Parcel Nos. 002-16-109, 002-16-024,
002-16-108, 002-16-025, 002-16-026, 002-16027; property running between West
67th Street on the west and West 65th
Street on the east, known as Permanent Parcel Nos. 002-09-104, 002-09-075,
002-09-105, 002-09-074, 002-09-106, 002-09073, and 002-09-133, for a period of
twenty years, and may be cancellable
by the Director of Community Development.
Section 2. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Director of Community
Development is authorized to enter
into one or more Leases By Way of
Concession with the Cleveland Public
Theatre, or its designee, for maintaining and operating surface parking
lots at the following location: Property located on the southern side of
Detroit Avenue, known as Permanent
Parcel No. 002-16-015, for a period of
twenty years, and may be cancellable
by the Director of Community Development.
Section 3. That upon acquisition
and completion of the parking lot
improvements authorized under Ordinance No. 872-08, passed June 9, 2008
for this parcel and notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Director of Community
Development is authorized to enter
into one or more Leases By Way of
Concession with the Near West Theatre, Inc., or its designee, for maintaining and operating surface parking lots at the following location:
Property located on the western side
of West 67th Street, known as Permanent Parcel No. 002-09-109, for a period
of twenty years, and may be cancellable by the Director of Community
Development.
Section 4. That the concession
agreements authorized in this ordinance shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

72
Ord. No. 847-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
lease certain property known as the
Oxbow Building located at 1283
Riverbed Street to Downtown Cleveland Alliance for the purpose of providing community space for residents
and stakeholders, docks for Flotsam
and Jetsam, and a secondary office
space for Flats Forward Inc., for a
term of five years, with two five year
options to renew, the first of which is
exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain property known as the
Oxbow Building located at 1283
Riverbed Street, which is not needed
for the City’s public use; and
Whereas, Downtown Cleveland
Alliance has proposed to lease the
property from the City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Public Works is
authorized to lease to Downtown
Cleveland Alliance (“Lessee”), certain property known as the Oxbow
Building located at 1283 Riverbed
Street, which is not needed for the
City’s public use and is more fully
described as follows:
Legal Description for Oxbow property
PPN 003-18-009
Situated in the city of Cleveland,
county of Cuyahoga, state of Ohio and
known as being a part of the original
Brooklyn township lot no. 70, but now
in the city of Cleveland and known as
being all of river lots nos. 7, 8 and 9
and two feet off of the northerly side
of river lot no. 10, and described as follows, to wit:
Commencing at a point in the easterly line of West River Street two feet
southerly from the northerly line of
river lot no. 10, thence northerly along
the easterly line on West River Street
200.67 feet to the northerly line on
river lot no. 7, thence easterly at right
angles with West River Street and
along the northerly line of said river
lot no. 7 to the Cuyahoga River,
thence southerly and up said Cuyahoga River about 201.80 feet to a line
parallel with the northerly line of
river lot no. 10 and two feet distant
southerly therefrom, thence westerly
along said parallel line to the easterly
line of West River Street at the place
of beginning, together with all riparian rights of the grantors in and to the
Cuyahoga River and the rights and
interest of the grantors in West River
Street, now known as Riverbed Street,
from which 30 feet was vacated
between Center Street to Sycamore
Street in 1898.
Section 2. That the term of the lease
authorized by this ordinance shall be
for five years, with two five year
options to renew. The first of the fiveyear options to renew may not be
exercised without additional legislative authority. If such additional legislative authority is granted and the
first of the five-year options to renew

The City Record
is exercised, then the second of the
five-year options to renew may be
exercisable at the option of the Director of Public Works, without the
necessity of obtaining additional
authority of this Council.”
Section 3. That the property authorized by this ordinance shall be
leased at a rental of $1.00 per year and
other valuable consideration including capital improvements and ongoing maintenance of the building,
which is determined to be fair market
value, exclusive of utilities and taxes.
Section 4. That the lease may authorize the Lessee to make improvements to the leased premises subject
to the approval of appropriate City
agencies and officials.
Section 5. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Works, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary
or appropriate to effect the lease
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 849-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of disposal of
debris at landfills, for the Divisions of
Water, Cleveland Public Power, and
Water Pollution Control, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period of two
years, with two one-year options to
renew, the first of which requires
additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for a period
of two years, with two one-year
options to renew, of the necessary
items of disposal of debris at landfills, in the approximate amount as
purchased during the preceding term,
to be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Divisions of Water,
Cleveland Public Power, and Water
Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is
made for the requirements for the
entire term. The first of the one-year

1260

August 27, 2014
options to renew may not be exercised
without additional legislative authority. If such additional legislative
authority is granted and the first of
the one-year options to renew is exercised, then the second of the one-year
options to renew may be exercisable
at the option of the Director of Public
Utilities, without the necessity of
obtaining additional authority of this
Council.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 2002, RL 2014-33)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Utilities may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 850-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
types of valves, actuators, and appurtenances, and labor and materials
necessary to service, repair, replace,
exercise, test, and maintain various
types of valves, actuators, and appurtenances, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two years, with two one-year
options to renew, the first of which is
exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for a period
up to two years, with two one-year
options to renew, of the necessary
items of various types of valves, actuators, and appurtenances, and labor
and materials necessary to service,
repair, replace, exercise, test, and
maintain various types of valves,
actuators, and appurtenances, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities. The first of the

August 27, 2014
one-year options to renew may not be
exercised without additional legislative authority. If such additional legislative authority is granted and the
first of the one-year options to renew
is exercised, then the second of the
one-year options to renew may be
exercisable at the option of the Director of Public Utilities, without the
necessity of obtaining additional
authority of this Council. Bids shall
be taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as a
single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of
the items as the Board of Control
determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements for
the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
purchase, which purchase, together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. RQN 2002, RL 2014-25
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Utilities may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 851-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
execute one or more deeds of easement granting to the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company and its
affiliated company, American Transmission Systems, Incorporated, and
The Greater Cleveland Regional
Transit Authority certain easement
rights in a portion of Ambler Park,
and declaring that the easement
rights granted are not needed for the
City’s public use.
Whereas, Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company and its affiliated
company, American Transmission
Systems, Incorporated, and The
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority has requested the Director
of Public Works to convey certain
easement rights in a portion of
Ambler Park; and
Whereas, The Greater Cleveland
Regional Transit Authority requires
the easements to install security fencing for its Fairhill Substation located
at 2880 Stokes Boulevard, and The
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company and its affiliated company,

The City Record
American Transmission Systems,
Incorporated, is seeking to secure
easement rights for future access to
the substation; and
Whereas, the easement rights to be
granted are not needed for the City’s
public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
easement interests in the following
described property are not needed for
the City’s public use:
Description of Easement
on the City of Cleveland property,
P.P.No. 121-28-001 in Cleveland, OH
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
being part of the Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 411 and being more particularly bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the
easterly line of Stokes Boulevard (80'
Wide) and the southerly line of Cedar
Avenue (78' Wide);
Thence South 42°31'52" East, along
the easterly line of said Stokes Boulevard, a distance of 785.71 feet to point
on the southerly line of a parcel of
land conveyed to The City of Cleveland by Deed Volume 7251, Page 618
of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence North 56°29'58" East, along
the southerly line of said City of
Cleveland parcel, a distance of 157.21
feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described tract of
land;
01. Thence North 56° 29' 58" East, a
distance of 25.41 feet to a point;
02. Thence North 47° 20' 21" East, a
distance of 147.07 feet to a point;
03. Thence South 42° 39' 27" East, a
distance of 18.38 feet to a point;
04. Thence South 23° 51' 36" East, a
distance of 21.95 feet to a point;
05. Thence South 30° 50' 40" West, a
distance of 26.85 feet to a point;
06. Thence South 37° 29' 39" West, a
distance of 37.45 feet to point;
07. Thence South 64° 03' 54" West, a
distance of 85.32 feet to a point;
08. Thence North 86°19'43" West, a
distance of 17.41 feet to a point;
09. Thence North 66°05'43" West, a
distance of 21.89 feet to the True Point
of Beginning and containing , more or
less 0.1577 acres and subject to all
legal easements, restrictions, reservations, conditions and rights-of-way of
previous record.
Legal Description prepared by
Michael Benza & Associates under
Project No. 5258
Section 2. That the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized
to convey the above-described easement interests to Cleveland Electric
Illuminating Company and its affiliated company, American Transmission Systems, Incorporated, and The
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority subject to any conditions
stated in this ordinance, at a price
determined to be fair market value by
the Board of Control, after appraisal
of the property.
Section 3. That the easements shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easements shall be to install security fencing for the RTA Fairhill Substation located at 2880 Stokes Boulevard and for future access to the substation.

1261

73
Section 4. That the duration of the
easements shall be perpetual; that the
easements shall not be assignable
without the consent of the Director of
Public Works; that the easements
shall require that Cleveland Electric
Illuminating Company and its affiliated company, American Transmission Systems, Incorporated, and The
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority provide reasonable insurance, maintain any Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company and its
affiliated company, American Transmission Systems, Incorporated, and
The Greater Cleveland Regional
Transit
Authority
improvements
located within the easements; pay
any applicable taxes and assessments; and shall contain such other
terms and conditions that the Director
of Law determines to be necessary to
protect and benefit the City.
Section 5. That the conveyances referenced above shall be made by official deeds of easement prepared by
the Director of Law and executed by
the Director of Public Works on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
Directors of Public Works and Law
are authorized to execute any other
documents, including without limitation, contracts for rights of entry, as
may be necessary to effect this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 852-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
execute a deed of easement granting
to the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company certain easement rights
in property at 1935 East 101st Street
located under the service drive of Fire
Station No. 10, and declaring that the
easement rights granted are not needed for the City’s public use.
Whereas, the Cleveland Electric
Illuminating Company (“CEI”) has
requested the Director of Public Safety to convey certain easement rights
in property at 1935 East 101st Street
located under the service drive of Fire
Station No. 10; and
Whereas, CEI requires the easement to install an underground conduit as part of their larger-scale project designed to handle future load
growth for the Cleveland Clinic; and
Whereas, the easement rights to be
granted are not needed for the City’s
public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
an easement interest in the following

74
described property is not needed for
the City’s public use:
Description of Underground Utility
Easement E-17
For the Illuminating Company
on the City of Cleveland property
P.P.No. 119-10-18 in Cleveland, OH
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
being part of the Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 401 and being more particularly bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
easterly line of East 101st Street (60'
Wide) and the southerly line of
Chester Avenue (86' Wide);
Thence South 00°35'13" West,
along the easterly line of East 101st.
Street, a distance of 185.23 feet to the
TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the
herein described tract of land;
01. Thence South 84° 41' 23" East, a
distance of 13.20 feet to a point;
02. Thence North 89° 54' 02" East, a
distance of 158.21 feet to a point;
03. Thence North 47° 18' 30" East, a
distance of 10.07 feet to a point;
04. Thence South 89° 54' 02" East, a
distance of 34.34 feet to a point;
05. Thence South 77° 19' 57" East, a
distance of 15.79 feet to a point on an
easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to The City of Cleveland by
Deed Volume 85-1262, Page 37 of Cuyahoga County Record’s and on the
northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to The Ronald McDonald House
of
Cleveland,
Inc.
by
AFN
201403180199;
06. Thence South 88° 54' 33" West,
along the northerly line of said
Ronald McDonald House parcel, a distance of 24.00 feet to a point
07. Thence South 27°52'18" West, a
distance of 26.38 feet along the westerly line of said Ronald McDonald
House parcel to a point;
08. Thence South 80° 48' 55" West, a
distance of 12.58 feet to a point;
09. Thence South 89° 54' 02" West, a
distance of 25.00 feet to a point;
10. Thence North 00° 05' 58" West, a
distance of 2.50 feet to a point;
11. Thence South 89° 54' 02" West, a
distance of 111.77 feet to a point;
12. Thence along the arc of a curve,
deflecting to the left, an arc distance
of 39.02 feet to a point, said arc having
a radius of 65.00 feet, a central angle
of 34°23'37" and a chord of 38.44 feet
which bears South 72°42'14" West,
said point being on the southerly line
of said City of Cleveland parcel;
13. Thence South 88° 54' 33" West,
along the southerly line of said City
of Cleveland parcel, a distance of 6.60
feet to a point on the easterly line of
said East 101st Street;
14. Thence North 00°33'27" East,
along the easterly line of said East
101st Street, a distance of 32.72 feet to
the True Point of Beginning and containing, more or less 0.1036 acres, and
subject to all legal easements, restrictions, reservations, conditions and
rights-of-way of previous record.
Legal Description prepared by
Michael Benza & Associates under
Project No. 5258
Section 2. That the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized
to convey the above-described easement interest to CEI subject to any
conditions stated in this ordinance, at
a price determined to be fair market
value by the Board of Control.
Section 3. That the easement shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be to implement
CEI’s larger-scale project designed to

The City Record
handle future load growth for the
Cleveland Clinic.
Section 4. That the duration of the
easement shall be perpetual; that the
easement shall not be assignable
without the consent of the Director of
Public Safety; that the easement shall
require that CEI provide reasonable
insurance,
maintain
any
CEI
improvements located within the
easement; pay any applicable taxes
and assessments; and shall contain
such other terms and conditions that
the Director of Law determines to be
necessary to protect and benefit the
City.
Section 5. That the conveyance referenced above shall be made by official deed of easement prepared by the
Director of Law and executed by the
Director of Public Safety on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The Directors
of Public Safety and Law are authorized to execute any other documents,
including without limitation, contracts for right of entry, as may be
necessary to effect this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 853-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1593-13, passed January 13,
2014, relating to one or more contracts
with Debt Next, LLC to assist various
departments with improving its
accounts receivables management.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1593-13,
passed January 13, 2014, are amended
to read as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more contracts with Debt
Next, LLC, for professional services
necessary to assist various departments and divisions of the City with
improving its accounts receivables
management, and authorizing a software license agreement with Debt
Next, LLC to use their proprietary
software, for a period up to two years,
with two one-year options to renew,
exercisable by the Director of
Finance.
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Debt Next,
professional
in-house
LLC,
for
accounts receivables management,
collection and consulting services
necessary to collect amounts and
claims owed to the various departments and divisions of the City government and to authorize a software
license agreement with Debt Next,
LLC to use their proprietary software.
Section 2. That the compensation to
be paid for the services and for the
software license shall be a contingent

1262

August 27, 2014
fee, the percentage or rate of which
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall require that all amounts collected be remitted to the City for deposit
in the City Treasury.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No.
1593-13, passed January 13, 2014, are
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 857-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 405.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1543-12,
passed December 3, 2012, to increase
towing fees for impounded vehicles.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 405.06 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1543-12, passed December 3, 2012,
is amended as follows:
Section 405.06 Impounding and
Towing Fees
(a) In addition to the storage fee
provided for in Section 405.04, the following fees shall be assessed against
the owner or other person claiming an
impounded vehicle:
(1) An impound fee of thirty dollars
($30.00), except that the impound fee
shall be reduced to ten dollars
($10.00) for a person reclaiming a
recovered stolen vehicle.
(2) A towing fee of one hundred and
twenty-five dollars ($125.00), except
that the towing fee shall be reduced
to fifty dollars ($50.00) for a person
reclaiming a recovered stolen vehicle,
and shall be increased to one hundred
and seventy-five dollars ($175.00) for
a
person
reclaiming
a
vehicle
impounded incident to an arrest.
The
towing
charge
shall
be
increased
by
thirty-five
dollars
($35.00) if a dolly or flatbed is used or
if a tire or tires are changed.
(b) No towing or impounding fees
shall be charged when the vehicle is
the property of the victim of a crime
and such vehicle is being held by the
Division of Police for processing.
Section 2. That existing Section
405.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1543-12, passed December 3, 2012, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

August 27, 2014
Ord. No. 999-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of reconstructing West
73rd Street and Father Frascati Drive;
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to enter into one or more public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement; authorizing one or more contracts with
C.W.Courtney Company to design the
improvement; authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
to acquire for right-of-way purposes
real property; authorizing the Director to apply for and accept gifts and
grants from any public or private
entity, to accept cash contributions,
and to enter into any agreements to
implement the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of reconstructing
West 73rd Street from Detroit Avenue
to Father Frascati Drive and Father
Frascati Drive from West 73rd Street
to West 70th Street (the “Improvement”), for the Department of Capital
Projects, by one or more contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding on a unit
basis for the Improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
the Improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with C.W.
Courtney Company for professional
services necessary to design the
Improvement, in an amount not to
exceed $245,000, for the Department of
Capital Projects.
Section 5. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire for right-of-way purposes
such real property as is necessary to
make the Improvement. The consideration to be paid for the property shall
not exceed fair market value.
Section 6. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City all documents
necessary to acquire the property and
to employ and pay all fees for title
companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers, review appraisers, and all other
costs necessary for the acquisition of
the property.
Section 7. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply for

The City Record
and accept any gifts or grants for this
purpose from any public or private
entity; and that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive any
funds or services; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
described in this ordinance.
Section 8. That, when appropriate,
the Director of Capital Projects is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts the Greater Cleveland
Regional Transit Authority and the
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District and other entities to obtain services or to acquire property rights
such as easements and licenses, necessary to construct the improvements
described in this ordinance.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects, when necessary, is
authorized to cause payment to the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority, the NEORSD, or any other
entities for payment of any services
which were necessary to construct
the Improvement described in this
ordinance.
Section 10. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept a
cash contribution from public or private entities for the improvement.
That the Director of Capital Projects
is authorized to enter into agreements
with the entities for this purpose and
to cause payment for those purposes.
Section 11. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with private utility companies to pay charges
for the design and installation of
underground lines in connection with
the improvement.
Section 12. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into any agreements necessary to
implement the Improvement.
Section 13. That the cost of the
Improvement, contracts, property
acquisition, or other expenditure
authorized in this ordinance shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF
528, 20 SF 534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20
SF 554, 20 SF 563, from the fund or
funds to which are credited any cash
contribution, payment, grant, or gift
accepted under this ordinance, and
any funds approved by the Director of
Finance for this purpose.
Section 14. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 1000-14.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Pruitt and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of repairing the autotransformer located at the Lake Road
Substation; and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

1263

75
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of repairing the
autotransformer located at the Lake
Road Substation, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities, by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding for a gross price for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
the improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract for a gross price. On
request of the director, the contractor
shall furnish a correct schedule of
unit prices, including profit and overhead, for all items constituting units
of the improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement and other expenditures
authorized shall be paid from Fund
No. 58 SF 230, RQS 2004, RL 2014-93.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 1001-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request)
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 8 of Ordinance No. 265-14,
passed March 17, 2014, relating to
applying for and accepting a grant
from the U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services for the Moms
First Program and authorizing contracts in connection with the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 8 of Ordinance No. 265-14, passed March 17,
2014, is amended to read as follows:
Section 8. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance and from Fund
No. 01-5005-6320, RQS 5005, RL 201496.
Section 2. That existing Section 8 of
Ordinance No. 265-14, passed March 17,
2014, is repealed.

76
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 1026-14.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with The Centers for
Families and Children for the Fathers
and Families Together Program
through the use of Ward 9 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into an agreement with The Centers
for Families and Children for the
Fathers and Families Together Program for the public purpose of promoting effective parenting skills in
the city of Cleveland among fathers
and parents to develop healthy interactions with their children through
the use of Ward 9 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $10,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 1027-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with Go Media or with its
fiscal agent Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization
for the Weapons of Mass Creation
Program through the use of Ward 15
Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement effective August 6,
2014 with Go Media or with its fiscal

The City Record
agent Detroit Shoreway Community
Development Organization for the
Weapons of Mass Creation Program
for the public purpose of providing
educational workshops on entrepreneurship to Cleveland small businesses through the use of Ward 15 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $5,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 1028-14.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Economic Development to enter into
an agreement with Mac’s Sports Grill
LLC
for
exterior
landscaping
improvements to the property to promote economic development through
the use of Ward 1 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Economic Development is hereby authorized to enter
into an agreement with Mac’s Sports
Grill LLC for exterior landscaping
improvements to the property for the
public purpose of promoting economic
development and new job creation
through the use of Ward 1 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Section 2 That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $5,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 1029-14.
By Council Members Reed, Cimperman, K. Johnson, Cleveland, Mitchell,
Dow, Polensek, Conwell, Brady, Brancatelli, Kelley, Cummins, Sweeney
and Keane.

1264

August 27, 2014
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with Summer on the
Cuyahoga for the Summer Student
Internship Program through the use
of Wards 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14,
16, and 17 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into an agreement with Summer on
the Cuyahoga for the Summer Student
Internship Program for the public
purpose of providing summer job
internships to Cleveland college students and attract new residents to the
city through the use of Wards 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, and 17 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $21,500 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 1060-14.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
enter into one or more agreements
with the Ohio Department of Transportation regarding ODOT’s improvement of constructing the West 25th
Street Bridge, to among other things,
allow ODOT to make the public
improvement of constructing landscape medians within the roadway
approaches; and to cause payment to
ODOT for the improvement.
Whereas, the Ohio Department of
Transportation (“ODOT”) is making
the public improvement of constructing the West 25th Street Bridge over
Interstate 71, PID 83488, in the City of
Cleveland (“ODOT Improvement”);
and
Whereas, the roadway approaches
to the West 25th Street Bridge are
located within the City of Cleveland:
and
Whereas, the City desires to construct landscape medians within the
roadway approaches of the ODOT
Improvement; and
Whereas, the construction of the
landscape medians are not within the
scope of the ODOT Improvement and
are at the request of the City; and

August 27, 2014
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with ODOT
regarding the ODOT Improvement to,
among other things, allow ODOT to
make the public improvement of constructing landscape medians within
the roadway approaches while ODOT
is constructing the ODOT Improvement.
Section 2. That this Council authorizes payment to ODOT for the construction of landscape medians within the roadway approaches which is
located in the City of Cleveland from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF
534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, and
20 SF 563.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 1062-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for The Rock n Roll Half
Marathon, on October 11, 2014, sponsored by Competitor Group.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
The Rock n Roll Half Marathon, on
October 11, 2014, start: Erieside an Al
Lernerway; Erieside east to East 9th,
East 9th south to Lakeside, Lakeside
east to East 20th, East 20th south to
St. Clair, St Clair west to East 18th,
East18th south to Euclid, Euclid west
to East Roadway, East roadway
north to West Mall Drive, West Mall
Drive north to St Clair, St Clair east to
East 6th, East 6th north to Lakeside,
Lakeside west to West 9th, West 9th
north to Front, Front west to West
10th, West 10th south to Robert Lockwood, Robert Lockwood south to
Columbus, Columbus west to West,
West north to Merwin, Merwin west to
Center, Center north to Riverbed,
Riverbed east to Elm, Elm north to
Main, Main west to West 25th, West
25th south to Detroit, Detroit west to
West 65th, West 65th south to West
Clinton, West Clinton east to West

The City Record
58th, West 58th south to Franklin,
Franklin east to West 25th, CROSS
over West 25th to Franklin Hill,
Franklin Hill east to Carter, Carter
east to Scranton, Scranton south to
Kenilworth, Kenilworth east to West
14th, West 14th south to Starkweather, Starkweather east to West 11th,
West 11th north to University, University west to West 13th , West 13th
south to Abby, Abby west to West
19th, West 19th north to West 20th,
West 20th south to Hope Memorial
Bridge, RUNNERS on sidewalk of
bridge, Bridge east to Ontario,
Ontario north to Huron, Huron west to
Superior, Superior east to West 3rd an
FINISH LINE, provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary in
order to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and all
liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 1063-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for The Susan G. Komen Race
for the Cure, on September 13, 2014,
managed by Hermes Sports & Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
The Susan G. Komen Race for the
Core, on September 13, 2014, start:
Lakeside & East 6th; Lakeside west to
West 3rd, West 3rd south to St Clair,
St Clair east to east 9th, East 9th
south to Carnegie, Carnegie east to
East 18th, East 18th north to Lakeside, Lakeside west to FINISH at East
6th, provided that the applicant sponsor shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order to
protect the participants in the event.

1265

77
Said permit shall further provide that
the City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability
resulting from the issuance of the
same, to the extent and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 1064-14.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the St. Rocco 5K Run, on
August 30, 2014, sponsored by St.
Rocco Festival Committee.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the St. Rocco 5K Run, on August 30,
2014, start: Fulton & St Rocco Court;
Fulton Rd south to Storer Ave, Storer
Ave west to West 61th, , West 61th
north to Clark Ave, Clark Ave east to
Fulton Rd, Fulton Rd south to St
Rocco Court, provided that the applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary in
order to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and all
liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 20, 2014.
Effective August 22, 2014.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

NO MEETINGS

The City Record

78

August 27, 2014

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Flu + You Program, 2014-2015 — grant — National Council on Aging (F 1038-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

Agreements
Capital Projects — Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) — constructing landscaping
medians at W. 25 Street Bridge (Ward 14) (O 1060-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264
Economic Development — Higbee Mothership, LLC for uses of service payments at Public Square
(O 981-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Fathers and Families Together Program — promoting effective parenting skills -The Centers
for Families and Children — Community Development (Ward 09 CRF) (O 1026-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1213-1264
Mac’s Sports Grill LLC — promoting new job creation — Economic Development Department
(Ward 01 CRF) (O 1028-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264
Summer Student Internship Program — Summer on the Cuyahoga — Community Development
Department (Ward(s) 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 CRF) (O 1029-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264
Weapons of Mass Creation Program — educational workshop on entrepreneurship — Go Media
or Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Community Development
(Ward 15 CRF) (O 1027-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264

Animals
Trap-Neuter-Return and Return to Field Community Cat city services (R 892-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1229-1238

Appreciation
Bailey, David B. (R 1096-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Reichsman, Dr. Ann B. (R 1097-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

Appropriations
Appropriations — additional — $5,151,793 — Enterprise Funds — Finance Department (O 979-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Fund transfer — $1,998,693 — Enterprise Fund (O 980-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Columbia Avenue, 10107 (Ward 9) — PPN 109-03-024 — Carolyn Pollard (BOC Res. 406-14) . .
Continental Avenue, 11921 (Ward 4) — PPN 129-23-131 — Lloyd A. Ali (BOC Res. 405-14) . . . .
East 71st Street, 2966 (Ward 5) — PPN 125-18-023 — Fuqua Property Holdings, LLC
(BOC Res. 404-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Merrill Avenue, 5902 (Ward 3) — PPN 016-08-055 — Tierra Associates Ltd. (BOC Res. 403-14)
West 60th Street, 3433 (Ward 15) — PPN 016-16-082 (northerly half) — Gary A. Smith
(BOC Res. 401-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 60th Street, 3433 (Ward 15) — PPN 016-16-082 (southerly half) — Stanko Kraguljac
(BOC Res. 402-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 89th Street, 1322 (Ward 15) — PPN 001-08-126 (northerly half) — Alexander A. Bognar
(BOC Res. 399-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 89th Street, 1322 (Ward 15) — PPN 001-08-126 (southerly half) — Bassam Malkieh
(BOC Res. 400-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1232
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1232
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1232
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1231
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1231
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1231
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1230
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1231

Board of Control — Concession Agreement
Valet parking service at Willard Parking Garage — Human Rights Campaign Fundraiser
at Cleveland Public Auditorium — per C.O. Sec. 183.04 to ASV Services, LLC — Dept.
of Public Works (BOC Res. 398-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1230

Board of Control — Finance Department
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products — Report for July, 2014 — Division of
Purchases and Supplies (BOC Res. 393-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Various building materials and supplies — amend BOC Res. 373-14 (BOC Res. 390-14) . .
Various building materials and supplies — amend BOC Res. 374-14 (BOC Res. 391-14) . .
Various building materials and supplies — amend BOC Res. 375-14 (BOC Res. 392-14) . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1229
1229
1229
1229

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Columbia Avenue, 10107 (Ward 9) — PPN 109-03-024 — Carolyn Pollard (BOC Res. 406-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1232
Continental Avenue, 11921 (Ward 4) — PPN 129-23-131 — Lloyd A. Ali (BOC Res. 405-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1232

1266

August 27, 2014

The City Record

79

East 71st Street, 2966 (Ward 5) — PPN 125-18-023 — Fuqua Property Holdings, LLC
(BOC Res. 404-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Merrill Avenue, 5902 (Ward 3) — PPN 016-08-055 — Tierra Associates Ltd. (BOC Res. 403-14)
West 60th Street, 3433 (Ward 15) — PPN 016-16-082 (northerly half) — Gary A. Smith
(BOC Res. 401-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 60th Street, 3433 (Ward 15) — PPN 016-16-082 (southerly half) —
Stanko Kraguljac (BOC Res. 402-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 89th Street, 1322 (Ward 15) — PPN 001-08-126 (northerly half) — Alexander A. Bognar
(BOC Res. 399-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 89th Street, 1322 (Ward 15) — PPN 001-08-126 (southerly half) — Bassam Malkieh
(BOC Res. 400-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1232
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1231
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1231
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1231
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1230
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1231

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Bunker Gear Suits — per C.O. Sec. 181.101(a)(25) — all bids rejected (BOC Res. 397-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1230
Employee Uniforms Items 1 (A — C),(E — J),(M),(N),(Q- V), 2 (B — D),(F),
4 (A),(B),(D),(E), 5 (B),(G),(J),(L — P), 6 (A) and 7 — per C.O. Sec. 181.101(a)(25)
to B. P. Britches, Inc. dba Christopher’s (BOC Res. 395-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1230
Employee Uniforms Items 1 (D) (K),(L),(O),(P),(W),(X), 2 (A),(E), 3 (A-C), 4(C),(F),(G),
5 (A),(C-I),(K), 6 (B),(C) — per C.O. Sec. 181.101(a)(25) to Cleveland Uniform, Inc.
(BOC Res. 396-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1230

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Maintenance of uninterruptible power supply systems, appurtenances, and specialized
batteries, Groups 1 & 2 all items — per Ord. 675-13 to System Engineering
International LLC dba Critical Power USA (BOC Res. 394-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1230

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Valet parking service at Willard Parking Garage — Human Rights Campaign Fundraiser
at Cleveland Public Auditorium — per C.O. Sec. 183.04 to ASV Services, LLC (BOC Res. 398-14) . . . . . . . . . . . 1230

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products — Report for July, 2014 — Dept.
of Finance (BOC Res. 393-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1229

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Employee Uniforms Items 1 (A — C),(E — J),(M),(N),(Q- V), 2 (B — D),(F), 4 (A),(B),(D),(E),
5 (B),(G),(J),(L — P), 6 (A) and 7 — per C.O. Sec. 181.101(a)(25) to B. P. Britches, Inc.
dba Christopher’s — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 395-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Employee Uniforms Items 1 (D) (K),(L),(O),(P),(W),(X), 2 (A),(E), 3 (A-C), 4(C),(F),(G),
5 (A),(C-I),(K), 6 (B),(C) — per C.O. Sec. 181.101(a)(25) to Cleveland Uniform, Inc. —
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 396-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Maintenance of uninterruptible power supply systems, appurtenances, and specialized
batteries, Groups 1 & 2 all items — per Ord. 675-13 to System Engineering
International LLC dba Critical Power USA — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 394-14) . . .
Various building materials and supplies — amend BOC Res. 373-14 — Dept. of Finance
(BOC Res. 390-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Various building materials and supplies — amend BOC Res. 374-14 — Dept. of Finance
(BOC Res. 391-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Various building materials and supplies — amend BOC Res. 375-14 — Dept. of Finance
(BOC Res. 392-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1230

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1230

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1230
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1229
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1229
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1229

Board of Control — Willard Park Garage
Valet parking service at Willard Parking Garage — Human Rights Campaign Fundraiser
at Cleveland Public Auditorium — per C.O. Sec. 183.04 to ASV Services, LLC — Dept.
of Public Works (BOC Res. 398-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1230

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Auburn Avenue, 1201, Parking and Common Area, (Ward 3) – City of Cleveland Land
Reutilization, owner, and Chelsea Investment Partners, prospective purchaser —
appeal postponed to 10/13/14 on 8/25/14 (Cal. 14-117). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Auburn Avenue, 1201, Unit 1, (Ward 3) – Chelsea Investment Partners, owner — appeal
postponed to 10/13/14 on 8/25/14 (Cal. 14-118) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Auburn Avenue, 1201, Unit 2, (Ward 3) – Chelsea Investment Partners, owner — appeal
postponed to 10/13/14 on 8/25/14 (Cal. 14-119) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Auburn Avenue, 1201, Unit 3, (Ward 3) – Chelsea Investment Partners, owner — appeal
postponed to 10/13/14 on 8/25/14 (Cal. 14-120) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Auburn Avenue, 1201, Unit 4, (Ward 3) – Chelsea Investment Partners, owner — appeal
postponed to 10/13/14 on 8/25/14 (Cal. 14-121) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Auburn Avenue, 1201, Unit 5, (Ward 3) – Chelsea Investment Partners, owner — appeal
postponed to 10/13/14 on 8/25/14 (Cal. 14-122) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1267

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237

The City Record

80

August 27, 2014

Auburn Avenue, 1201, Unit 6, (Ward 3) – Chelsea Investment Partners, owner — appeal
postponed to 10/13/14 on 8/25/14 (Cal. 14-123) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Auburn Avenue, 1201, Unit 7, (Ward 3) – Chelsea Investment Partners, owner — appeal
postponed to 10/13/14 on 8/25/14 (Cal. 14-124) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Auburn Avenue, 1201, Unit 8, (Ward 3) – Chelsea Investment Partners, owner — appeal
postponed to 10/13/14 on 8/25/14 (Cal. 14-125) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Auburn Avenue, 1201, Unit 9, (Ward 3) – Chelsea Investment Partners, owner — appeal
postponed to 10/13/14 on 8/25/14 (Cal. 14-126) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 127th Street, 732, (Ward 10) – Al Kriss, owner — appeal heard on 8/25/14 (Cal. 14-131) . . .
East 176th Street, 3971, (Ward 1) – Lillian Greene, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 8/25/14 (Cal. 14-137) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 65th Street, 3675, (Ward 12) – — appeal postponed to 9/29/14 on 8/25/14 (Cal. 14-142) . . . .
East 81st Street, 2238, (Ward 6) – Carl & Carol Wilson, owners — appeal heard on 8/25/14
(Cal. 14-138) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeshore Boulevard, 16820, (Ward 8) – ABE Tayeh, owner — appeal postponed to 9/22/14 on
8/25/14 (Cal. 14-139) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 5709, (Ward 15) – Ibrahim Kalini, owner — appeal heard on
8/25/14 (Cal. 14-75). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Triskett Road, 14143, (Ward 16) – Debra Dabato, owner — appeal heard on 8/25/14
(Cal. 14-104) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Road, 1107, (Ward 3) – Nick Sommers, owner — appeal heard on 8/25/14
(Cal. 14-132) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 20th Street, 2267, (Ward 3) – Richard Vanpetten and Dale H. Smith, owners — appeal
granted and adopted on 8/25/14 (Cal. 14-133) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
East 140th Street, 511, (Ward 8) – Gillota Fuel Product, owner — appeal to be heard on
9/15/14 (Cal. 14-161) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 140th Street, 511, (Ward 8) – Gillota Fuel Products, owner — appeal to be heard on
9/15/14 (Cal. 14-144) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 168th Street, 4267, (Ward 1) – Otis Buchanan, owner — appeal to be heard on 9/15/14
(Cal. 14-160) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Green Road, 2240, (Ward 10) – Nick Jackson, owner — appeal to be heard on 9/15/14
(Cal. 14-159) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard Avenue, 10201, (Ward 2) – 9000 Aetna LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on 9/15/14
(Cal. 14-162) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hillview Road, 1740, (Ward 10) – Richard Ford, owner — appeal to be heard on 9/15/14
(Cal. 14-154) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 1867, (Ward 3) – P. and M. Ohio City LLC, owner — appeal to be heard
on 9/15/14 (Cal. 14-157) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1236
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1236
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237

Bonds
Water Revenue Refunding bonds — Finance Department — Utilities Department —
Water Division (O 985-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1195

Bridges
Canal Road Bridge removal and replacement — consent — Capital Projects Office — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) (O 843-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1257
Public Works — grant permanent and temporary easements to Cuyahoga County —
East 49th St. Bridge (O 844-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1257

Capital Projects
Agreements — Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) — constructing landscaping
medians at W. 25 Street Bridge (Ward 14) (O 1060-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264
Bridge Ave., 3000 N.W. — encroach into right — of — way — entry-area ADA ramp and stair —
WSCH, LLC — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 836-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1256
Canal Road Bridge removal and replacement — consent — Ohio Department of Transportation
(ODOT) (O 843-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1257
Lease Arch No. 6 of the Superior Viaduct — John G. Johnson Construction Company — employee
parking and for material storage (O 990-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1202
St. Rocco 5K Run — permit — Aug. 30th — St. Rocco Festival Committee (Ward 14) (O 1064-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1265
Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure — permit — Sept. 13th — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03)
(O 1063-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1265
The Rock n Roll Half Marathon — permit — Oct. 11 — Competitor Group (Ward 03) (O 1062-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1265
West 21st St., and Moore Ave., N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning
Commission (Ward 03) (R 1031-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1212
West 73rd St. and Father Frascati Dr. — public improvement — contracts — right-of-way —
C.W. Courtney Co. — design the improvement (Ward 15) (O 999-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1212-1263

City of Cleveland Bids
EMS Inventory Management Systems (Re-bid) — Department of Public Safety — Division
of Emergency Medical Service — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due September 10, 2014
(advertised 8/27/2014 and 9/3/2014). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1238

1268

August 27, 2014

The City Record

81

Repair/Replace Fire Extinguishers — Department of Finance — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid
due September 17, 2014 (advertised 8/27/2014 and 9/3/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1238

City Planning Commission
Bridge Ave., 3000 N.W. — encroach into right-of-way-entry-area ADA ramp and stair —
WSCH, LLC — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 836-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1256
Clark Ave. (between Train Ave. and W. 41st St.) — change Use District (Ward(s) 14, 15)
(O 1435-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1247
Lake Ave. (West of) Clifton Blvd. — change Use and Area Districts (Ward 15) (O 998-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1211
Lorain Ave. (between Columbus Rd. and West 17th St.) — change Use, Area and Height
Districts (Ward 03) (O 1604-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1249
North side of Clifton Blvd. (between West 117th St. and West 116th St.) — removing the
existing mapped front setbacks on parcels (Ward 15) (O 996-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1209
North side of Marquardt Ave. (between West 7th St. and West 5th St.) — Establishing new
mapped setbacks on parcels (Ward 03) (O 994-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1207
Southeast corner of West 115th St. and Lake Ave. — Establishing new mapped setbacks on
parcels (Ward 15) (O 995-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1208
West 115th St. (southeast corner) and Lake Ave. — change Use, Area and Height Districts
(Ward 15) (O 997-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1210
West 21st St., and Moore Ave., N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects
Office (Ward 03) (R 1031-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1212

Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (CEI)
Public Safety — deed of easement — East 101st St., 1935 — Fire Station No. 10 (Ward 07)
(O 852-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1261
Public Works — deeds of easement — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority (RTA) —
Ambler Park (O 851-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1261
Reconductor and Structure Replacement Project (Case No. 14-1302-EL-BLN) by American
Transmission Systems, Inc. (F 1037-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

Cleveland Municipal Court
Residential Opiate Project Grant — U.S. Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Assistance —
Finance Department (O 984-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194

Cleveland Public Power (CPP)
Debris disposal at landfills — Utilities Department — Water Division — Water Pollution
Control Division (O 849-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1260
Utilities Department — public improvement — contract — Lake Road Substation Transformer
repair (O 1000-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1213-1263

Cleveland Public Theater
Community Development — Leases By Way of Concession — Detroit Shoreway Community
Development Organization — Near West Theater, Inc. — maintaining and operating
parking lots (O 846-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1259

Codified Ordinances
Emergency Police Alarms — repeal sects. and enact new Sects 670A.01 to 670A.10 (O 1059-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1204
Increase Impounding and Towing Fees — amend Section 405.06 (O 857-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1262
Sewerage Service Rates within Cleveland — amend Section 543.02 (O 1030-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1204

Commemoration
Agami, Daniel, Private First Class, United States Army (R 1100-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bowen, Samuel R., Private First Class, United States Army (R 1101-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dowdy, Robert J. , First Sergeant, United States Army (R 1102-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eckfield, Jr., Robert F., Lance Corporal, United States Marine Corps. (R 1103-14) . . . . . . . .
Fabrizi, Jason J., Sergeant First Class, United States Army (R 1104-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Garmback, Jr., Joseph Martin, Specialist, United States Army (R 1105-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
King, Charles M., First Sergeant, United States Army (R 1106-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ruiz, David A. Mendez, Lance Corporal, United States Martine Corps. (R 1107-14) . . . . . . . .
Schroeder, II, Edward August — Lance Corporal, United States Marine Corps. (R 1099-14)

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1192
1192
1192
1192
1192
1192
1192
1192
1192

Communications
Cedar Extension Redevelopment Phase II — Community College Avenue and East 30th St. —
utilize multifamily funding programs — Ralph A. Falbo Inc. — OHFA (Ward 05)
(F 1036-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Flu + You Program, 2014-2015 — grant — National Council on Aging — Aging Department
(F 1038-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

1269

The City Record

82

August 27, 2014

Happy Health Babies — Baby Buggy Walk in the Park event — grants — U.S. Department
of Health and Human Services Office of Minority Health — Paramount Advantage —
Health Department (F 1033-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mayor’s Jackson nominations to various boards and commissions (F 1039-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio MHAS/Access to Recovery — support adult outpatient substance abuse treatment
services — contract award — Office of Mental Health and Substance Abuse — Health
Department (F 1032-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reconductor and Structure Replacement Project (Case No. 14-1302-EL-BLN) by American
Transmission Systems, Inc. — First Energy Service Co. (F 1037-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

Community Development
Fathers and Families Together Program — promoting effective parenting skills -The Centers
for Families and Children — agreements (Ward 09 CRF) (O 1026-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1213-1264
Homeless assistance activities — contracts — Cuyahoga County and various non-profit
agencies (O 986-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1201
Leases By Way of Concession — Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization —
Cleveland Public Theatre — Near West Theater, Inc. — maintaining
and operating parking lots (O 846-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1259
Summer Student Internship Program — Summer on the Cuyahoga — agreement (Ward(s)
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 CRF) (O 1029-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264
Weapons of Mass Creation Program — educational workshop on entrepreneurship — Go Media
or Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — agreement (Ward
15 CRF) (O 1027-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264

Condolences
Aden, Sr., Rev. John Wesley (R 1071-14). . . . . . . .
Choma, Thelma (R 1069-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Green, Roberta (R 1075-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
James, Howard (R 1074-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnson, Sophia Yvonne (R 1077-14) . . . . . . . . . . .
Lewis, Diana Marie (R 1072-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morton-McCurdy, Devonte (R 1073-14) . . . . . . . . .
Plummer-Roquemore, Birdie Elaine (R 1070-14).
Washington, Henry William (R 1076-14) . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1192
1192
1192
1192
1192
1192
1192
1192
1192

Adams, Matthew & Inez — 70th Wedding Anniversary (R 1078-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Butler, Rev. Stephen Marcus (R 1084-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Collins, Tom (R 1089-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Assessment & Treatment Services — CATS on Broadway Gala (R 1087-14) . .
Dillard, Pastor Barbara A. (R 1079-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ellis, Bishop J. Delano (R 1080-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holy Redeemer Parish (90th Anniversary) (R 1082-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jackson, Sr., Rev. John D. (R 1090-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Job Corps Program (50th Anniversary) (R 1083-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mitchell-Monroe, Mother Roy (R 1091-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
New Bethlehem Baptist Church (90th Anniversary) (R 1085-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Resseger, William “ Bill “ (R 1086-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Richardson, Sgt. Michael W. — Badge #9804 (R 1088-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Slovenian National Home (100th Anniversary) and Hall (90th Anniversary) (R 1081-14).

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1192
1192
1192
1192
1192
1192
1192
1192
1192
1192
1192
1192
1192
1192

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

Congratulations

Contracts
Background and criminal checks, pre-employment — Human Resources Department (O 992-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1203
BIG Wireless, LLC — professional services — Level 3 support and maintenance,
hardware upgrades (O 831-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1256
Canal Road Bridge removal and replacement — Capital Projects Office — Ohio Department of
Transportation (ODOT) (O 843-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1257
Capital Projects — agreements — Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) — constructing
landscaping medians at W. 25 Street Bridge (Ward 14) (O 1060-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264
Cuyahoga Community College — professional service -Training for Divisions of Police, Fire,
and Emergency Medical Service (O 989-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1202
Debris disposal at landfills — Cleveland Public Power Division — Utilities Department —
Water Division — Water Pollution Control Division (O 849-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1260
Debt Next, LLC — amend Ord. 1593-13 — Finance Department (O 853-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1262
Distribution Water Mains — public improvements- Cleaning, Cement Mortar Lining and
Replacement, 2014 and 2015 — amend Ord. 1105-13 (O 982-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Economic Development — agreements — Higbee Mothership, LLC for uses of service payments
at Public Square (O 981-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Employee Benefits International — professional services — City of Cleveland Self-Insured
Employee Healthcare Benefits Plan for employee and prisoner healthcare (O 845-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1259

1270

August 27, 2014

The City Record

83

Exercise option to renew for optional residential warranties — amend Contract No. 69444
with Dominion -Water and Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract and
Protection Plan Program — Water Heater Repair and Replacement Plan (O 988-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1202
Fathers and Families Together Program — promoting effective parenting skills -The Centers
for Families and Children — agreements — Community Development (Ward 09 CRF)
(O 1026-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1213-1264
Group Plan Commission — redevelopment of Public Square, the construction of improvements
to Malls B and C — pedestrian and bicycle bridge to connect Mall C to the North
Coast Harbor District (O 1061-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1206
Homeless assistance activities — Cuyahoga County and various non-profit agencies —
Community Development (O 986-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1201
Mac’s Sports Grill LLC — promoting new job creation — agreement — Economic Development
Department (Ward 01 CRF) (O 1028-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264
Massie Ave., Rockwell Ave., and Rosecliff Avenue sewer replacement projects — public
improvement — Utilities Department (O 991-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1203
MCPc, Inc. — professional services — application and network updates — Finance Department
(O 987-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1201
Meter Automation Reading System, replacement and water loss control program — amend
Contract No. CT 2002 2010-257 with Itron, Inc. (O 983-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Microsoft licenses — renew Contract No. MA 1511 RC2010-118 — Software House International
Inc. (O 838-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1256
Ohio MHAS/Access to Recovery — support adult outpatient substance abuse treatment
services — contract award — Office of Mental Health and Substance Abuse — Health
Department (F 1032-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Summer Student Internship Program — Summer on the Cuyahoga — agreement — Community
Development Department (Ward(s) 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 CRF)
(O 1029-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264
Utilities Department — professional service — provide comprehensive financial plan, service
studies, and fee analysis for the years 2016 through 2020 (O 993-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1203
Utilities Department — public improvement — Lake Road Substation Transformer repair
(O 1000-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1213-1263
Valves, actuators, and appurtenances — Utilities Department — Water Division (O 850-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1260
Weapons of Mass Creation Program — educational workshop on entrepreneurship — Go Media
or Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — agreement — Community
Development (Ward 15 CRF) (O 1027-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264
West 73rd St. and Father Frascati Dr. — public improvement — right-of-way — C.W. Courtney
Co. — design the improvement (Ward 15) (O 999-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1212-1263

Cuyahoga Community College (CCC)
Professional service — contracts — Training for Divisions of Police, Fire, and Emergency
Medical Service (O 989-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1202

Cuyahoga County
Homeless assistance activities — contracts — Cuyahoga County and various non-profit
agencies — Community Development (O 986-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Immunization Action Plan Program, 2015 — charge and accept fees — Cuyahoga County Board
of Health — Health Department (O 829-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Litter Clean Up and Tire Amnesty Program, 2014 — Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) — Grants — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District — Works Department (O 799-14) .
Public Works — grant permanent and temporary easements to Cuyahoga County — East 49th St.
Bridge (O 844-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Solid Waste Disposal Program, 2015 — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste Management District —
Health Department (O 830-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1201
. . . . . . . . . 1225-1255
. . . . . . . . . 1225-1255
. . . . . . . . . 1225-1257
. . . . . . . . . 1225-1256

Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization
Community Development — Leases By Way of Concession — Cleveland Public Theatre —
Near West Theater, Inc. — maintaining and operating parking lots (O 846-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1259
Weapons of Mass Creation Program — educational workshop on entrepreneurship — Go Media
or Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — agreement — Community
Development (Ward 15 CRF) (O 1027-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264

Dominion East Ohio
Exercise option to renew for optional residential warranties — amend Contract No. 69444
with Dominion -Water and Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract and
Protection Plan Program — Water Heater Repair and Replacement Plan (O 988-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1202

Easements
Henninger Road and Wildlife Way — Combined Sewer Overflow (CSO) Project 049/050 —
NEORSD — Utilities Department — Works Department (O 721-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1254
Kinsman Rd., East 79th St. — Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District (NEORSD) — Urban
Agriculture Green Infrastructure Project (Ward 05) (O 720-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1224-1252

1271

The City Record

84

August 27, 2014

Public Safety — Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company — East 101st St., 1935 —
Fire Station No. 10 (Ward 07) (O 852-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1261
Public Works — Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company — Greater Cleveland Regional
Transit Authority (RTA) — Ambler Park (O 851-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1261
Public Works — grant permanent and temporary easements to Cuyahoga County —
East 49th St. Bridge (O 844-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1257

Economic Development Department
Agreements — Higbee Mothership, LLC for uses of service payments at Public Square (O 981-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Apply and accept HUD 108 Empowerment Zone loan — contract — Victory Midtown for Victory
Bldg., Euclid Ave., 7012 (Ward 05) (O 463-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1224-1252
Mac’s Sports Grill LLC — promoting new job creation — agreement (Ward 01 CRF) (O 1028-14) . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264

Emergency Medical Service Division (EMS)
Cuyahoga Community College — professional service — contracts — Training for Divisions
of Police, Fire, and Emergency Medical Service (O 989-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1202

Encroachments
Bridge Ave., 3000 N.W. — right — of — way — entry-area ADA ramp and stair — WSCH, LLC —
Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 836-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1256

Enterprise Funds
Appropriations — additional — $5,151,793 — Enterprise Funds — Finance Department (O 979-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Fund transfer — $1,998,693 — Enterprise Fund (O 980-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193

Fees
Increase Impounding and Towing Fees — amend Section 405.06 (O 857-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1262
Sewerage Service Rates Within Cleveland — amend Section 543.02 (O 1030-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1204
Utilities Department — professional service — contract — provide comprehensive financial
plan, service studies, and fee analysis for the years 2016 through 2020
(O 993-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1203

Finance Department
Appropriations — additional — $5,151,793 — Enterprise Funds (O 979-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Debt Next, LLC — contracts — amend Ord. 1593-13 (O 853-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1262
Employee Benefits International — professional services — contracts — City of Cleveland
Self-Insured Employee Healthcare Benefits Plan for employee and prisoner healthcare
(O 845-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1259
Fund transfer — $1,998,693 — Enterprise Fund (O 980-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
MCPc, Inc. — professional services — contracts — application and network updates (O 987-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1201
Microsoft licenses — renew Contract No. MA 1511 RC2010-118 — Software House International
Inc. (O 838-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1256
Residential Opiate Project Grant — U.S. Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Assistance —
Cleveland Municipal Court (O 984-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Water Revenue Refunding bonds — Utilities Department — Water Division (O 985-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1195

Fire Division
Cuyahoga Community College — professional service — contracts — Training for Divisions
of Police, Fire, and Emergency Medical Service (O 989-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1202

Grants
Flu + You Program, 2014-2015 — National Council on Aging — Aging Department (F 1038-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Group Plan Commission — contracts — redevelopment of Public Square, the construction of
improvements to Malls B and C — pedestrian and bicycle bridge to connect Mall C to
the North Coast Harbor District (O 1061-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1206
Happy Health Babies — Baby Buggy Walk in the Park event — U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services Office of Minority Health — Paramount Advantage — Health Department
(F 1033-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Immunization Action Plan Program, 2015 — charge and accept fees — Cuyahoga County Board
of Health — Health Department (O 829-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1255
Litter Clean Up and Tire Amnesty Program, 2014 — Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District — Works Department (O 799-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1255
Moms First Program — U.S. Department of Health and Human Services — amend Ord.
265-14 (O 1001-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1213-1263
Solid Waste Disposal Program, 2015 — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste Management District —
Health Department (O 830-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1256

1272

August 27, 2014

The City Record

85

Health Care Coverage
Employee Benefits International — professional services — contracts — City of Cleveland
Self-Insured Employee Healthcare Benefits Plan for employee and prisoner healthcare
(O 845-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1259

Health Department
Happy Health Babies — Baby Buggy Walk in the Park event — grants — U.S. Department
of Health and Human Services Office of Minority Health — Paramount Advantage
(F 1033-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Immunization Action Plan Program, 2015 — charge and accept fees — Cuyahoga County Board
of Health (O 829-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1255
Moms First Program — grant — U.S. Department of Health and Human Services — amend Ord.
265-14 (O 1001-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1213-1263
Ohio MHAS/Access to Recovery — support adult outpatient substance abuse treatment
services — contract award — Office of Mental Health and Substance Abuse (F 1032-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Solid Waste Disposal Program, 2015 — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste Management District
(O 830-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1256
Trap-Neuter-Return and Return to Field Community Cat city services (R 892-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1229-1238

Homeless
Homeless assistance activities — contracts — Cuyahoga County and various non-profit
agencies — Community Development (O 986-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1201

Housing And Urban Development (HUD)
Apply and accept HUD 108 Empowerment Zone loan — contract — Victory Midtown for Victory
Bldg., Euclid Ave., 7012 (Ward 05) (O 463-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1224-1252

Human Resources Department
Background and criminal checks, pre-employment (O 992-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1203

Lease By Way Of Concession
Community Development — Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization —
Cleveland Public Theatre — Near West Theater, Inc. — maintaining and operating
parking lots (O 846-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1259

Leases
Capital Projects — Arch No. 6 of the Superior Viaduct — John G. Johnson Construction
Company — employee parking and for material storage (O 990-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1202
Public Works — Oxbow Building located at Riverbed St., 1283 — Downtown Cleveland
Alliance (O 847-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1260

Liquor Permits
Denison Ave., 6501 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1052-13 (Ward 15)
(R 1002-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1238
Detroit Ave., 2920 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 03) (F 1049-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Detroit Ave., 2920 (patio) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03) (R 1003-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1239
Dove Ave., 10808 (1st fl.) — objection to renewal (Ward 02) (R 1066-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1223-1246
East 105th St., 917 — transfer of location application (Ward 09) (F 1046-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
East 116th St., 3600 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 937-13 (Ward 06)
(R 1005-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1216-1239
East 116th St., 3643 — objection to renewal (Ward 02) (R 1067-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1224-1247
East 116th St., 3705 — objection to renewal (Ward 02) (R 1068-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1224-1247
East 131st St., 4096 — objection to transfer of location (Ward 02) (R 1006-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1216-1239
East 131st St., 4096 — transfer of location application (Ward 02) (F 1048-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
East 185th St., 770 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1624-13
(Ward 08) (R 1008-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1217-1240
East 185th St., 910 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 08) (R 1007-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1217-1240
East 185th St., 910 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 08) (F 1040-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
East 21st St., 1417-23 — objection to renewal (Ward 07) (R 1004-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1216-1239
East 4th St., 2061 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 03) (F 1053-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
East 89th St., 2355 — new application (Ward 06) (F 1047-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Euclid Ave., 11625 — new application (Ward 09) (F 1045-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Euclid Ave., 18029 — objection to transfer of location (Ward 10) (R 1010-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1218-1241
Euclid Ave., 850 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03) (R 1009-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1217-1240
Euclid Ave., 850 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 03) (F 1051-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

1273

The City Record

86

August 27, 2014

Franklin Blvd., 5105 — new application (Ward 15) (F 1050-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Franklin Blvd., 5105 — objection to issuance (Ward 15) (R 1011-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1218-1241
Harvard Ave., 7910 — objection to renewal (Ward 12) (R 1058-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1222-1245
Independence Rd., 3578 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1204-13
(Ward 12) (R 1012-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1218-1241
Kinsman Ave., 9203 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 938-13 (Ward 06) (R 1013-14) . . . . . . . . . . 1219-1242
Linwood Ave., 7038 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1625-12
(Ward 07) (R 1014-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1219-1242
Lorain Ave., 10323 and 10327 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 11) (F 1043-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Lorain Ave., 4506 (1st fl.) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03) (R 1015-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1219-1242
Memphis Ave., 6101 — objection to renewal (Ward 13) (R 1016-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1219-1242
Miles Ave., 12301 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 946-13 (Ward 02) (R 1017-14). . . . . . . . . . . 1220-1243
Payne Ave., 3211 — transfer of location application (Ward 07) (F 1042-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Prospect Ave., 1222 (1st fl. and bsmt.) — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1018-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220-1243
Public Sq., 75 (Suite B-100) — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 917-13
(Ward 03) (R 1019-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220-1243
Ridge Rd., 3837 — objection to renewal (Ward 13) (R 1020-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220-1243
St. Clair Ave., 5510 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 566-14
(Ward 07) (R 1021-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1221-1244
Superior Ave., 3610 — objection to renewal (Ward 07) (R 1022-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1221-1244
Walton Ave., 3619 — new application (Ward 14) (F 1044-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Waterloo Rd., 15802 — objection to issuance (Ward 08) (R 1023-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1221-1244
West 105th St., 3021 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 15) (F 1056-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
West 105th St., 3312 — new application (Ward 11) (F 1052-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
West 25th St., 3203 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 14) (F 1055-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
West 25th St., 3474 — stock application (Ward 14) (F 1041-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
West 6th St., 1261-65 (1st fl. and patio) — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1024-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1222-1245
West 9th St., 1300 — stock application (Ward 03) (F 1054-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

Loans
Apply and accept HUD 108 Empowerment Zone loan — contract — Victory Midtown for Victory
Bldg., Euclid Ave., 7012 (Ward 05) (O 463-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1224-1252

Mayor’s Office
Mayor’s Jackson nominations to various boards and commissions (F 1039-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Rybka, Edward W. — oath of office — Chief of Regional Development (F 1035-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District (NEORSD)
Henninger Road and Wildlife Way — deeds of easements — Combined Sewer Overflow (CSO)
Project 049/050 — Utilities Department — Works Department (O 721-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1254
Kinsman Rd., East 79th St. — deed of easement — Urban Agriculture Green Infrastructure
Project (Ward 05) (O 720-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1224-1252

Oath Of Office
Kilbane, Grace A. — Director — Workforce Development (F 1034-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Rybka, Edward W. — Chief of Regional Development (F 1035-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

Ohio Department Of Transportation (ODOT)
Canal Road Bridge removal and replacement — consent — Capital Projects Office (O 843-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1257
Capital Projects — agreements — constructing landscaping medians at W. 25th Street Bridge
(Ward 14) (O 1060-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264

Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (OHIO EPA)
Litter Clean Up and Tire Amnesty Program, 2014 — Grants — Cuyahoga County Solid
Waste District — Works Department (O 799-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1255

Ohio Housing Finance Agency (OHFA)
Cedar Extension Redevelopment Phase II — Community College Avenue and East 30th St. —
utilize multifamily funding programs — Ralph A. Falbo Inc. (Ward 05) (F 1036-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

Permits
Bridge Ave., 3000 N.W. — encroach into right-of-way-entry-area ADA ramp and stair —
WSCH, LLC — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 03)
(O 836-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1256
St. Rocco 5K Run — Aug. 30th — St. Rocco Festival Committee (Ward 14) (O 1064-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1265

1274

August 27, 2014

The City Record

87

Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure — Sept. 13th — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03)
(O 1063-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1265
The Rock n Roll Half Marathon — Oct. 11 — Competitor Group (Ward 03) (O 1062-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1265

Police Division
Cuyahoga Community College — professional service — contracts — Training for Divisions
of Police, Fire, and Emergency Medical Service (O 989-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1202
Emergency Police Alarms — repeal sects. and enact new Sects 670A.01 to 670A.10 (O 1059-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1204
Increase Impounding and Towing Fees — amend Section 405.06 (O 857-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1262

Professional Services
Background and criminal checks, pre-employment — Human Resources Department (O 992-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1203
BIG Wireless, LLC — contracts — Level 3 support and maintenance, hardware
upgrades (O 831-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1256
Cuyahoga Community College — contracts — Training for Divisions of Police, Fire, and
Emergency Medical Service (O 989-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1202
Debt Next, LLC — amend Ord. 1593-13 — Finance Department (O 853-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1262
Employee Benefits International — contracts — City of Cleveland Self-Insured
Employee Healthcare Benefits Plan for employee and prisoner healthcare (O 845-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1259
MCPc, Inc. — contracts — application and network updates — Finance Department (O 987-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1201
Utilities Department — contract — provide comprehensive financial plan, service studies,
and fee analysis for the years 2016 through 2020 (O 993-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1203
West 73rd St. and Father Frascati Dr. — public improvement — contracts — right-of-way —
C.W. Courtney Co. — design the improvement (Ward 15) (O 999-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1212-1263

Public Improvements
Distribution Water Mains — contracts — Cleaning, Cement Mortar Lining and Replacement,
2014 and 2015 — amend Ord. 1105-13 (O 982-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Massie Ave., Rockwell Ave., and Rosecliff Avenue sewer replacement projects — contracts —
Utilities Department (O 991-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1203
Utilities Department — contract — Lake Road Substation Transformer repair (O 1000-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1213-1263
West 73rd St. and Father Frascati Dr. — contracts — right-of-way — C.W. Courtney Co. —
design the improvement (Ward 15) (O 999-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1212-1263

Public Square
Economic Development — agreements — Higbee Mothership, LLC for uses of service payments
at Public Square (O 981-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Group Plan Commission — contracts — redevelopment of Public Square, the construction of
improvements to Malls B and C — pedestrian and bicycle bridge to connect Mall C to
the North Coast Harbor District (O 1061-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1206

Public Works
Deeds Of Easement — Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company — Greater Cleveland Regional
Transit Authority (RTA) — Ambler Park (O 851-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1261
Grant permanent and temporary easements to Cuyahoga County — East 49th St. Bridge
(O 844-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1257
Group Plan Commission — contracts — redevelopment of Public Square, the construction of
improvements to Malls B and C — pedestrian and bicycle bridge to connect Mall C to
the North Coast Harbor District (O 1061-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1206
Henninger Road and Wildlife Way — deeds of easements — Combined Sewer Overflow (CSO)
Project 049/050 — NEORSD — Utilities Department (O 721-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1254
Kinsman Rd., East 79th St. — deed of easement — Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District
(NEORSD) — Urban Agriculture Green Infrastructure Project (Ward 05) (O 720-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1224-1252
Lease — Oxbow Building located at Riverbed St., 1283 — Downtown Cleveland Alliance
(O 847-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1260
Litter Clean Up and Tire Amnesty Program, 2014 — Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) — Grants — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District (O 799-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1255

Races
St. Rocco 5K Run — permit — Aug. 30th — St. Rocco Festival Committee (Ward 14) (O 1064-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1265
Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure — permit — Sept. 13th — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03)
(O 1063-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1265
The Rock n Roll Half Marathon — permit — Oct. 11 — Competitor Group (Ward 03) (O 1062-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1265

Recognition
Ashley Family Reunion (R 1093-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Borges, Matthew J. (R 1095-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Dazz Band (R 1092-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lutheran Hospital — Pathway to Excellence Award (R 1094-14) .

1275

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1192
1192
1192
1192

The City Record

88

August 27, 2014

Regional Transit Authority (RTA)
Public Works — deeds of easement — Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company —
Ambler Park (O 851-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1261

Resolution Of Support
Childhood Cancer Awareness Month — September (R 1025-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1222-1245
Promoting Meatless Mondays (R 1065-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1223-1246
Trap-Neuter-Return and Return to Field Community Cat city services (R 892-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1229-1238

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Childhood Cancer Awareness Month — September (R 1025-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1222-1245
Promoting Meatless Mondays (R 1065-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1223-1246
Trap-Neuter-Return and Return to Field Community Cat city services (R 892-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1229-1238

Right-Of-Way
West 73rd St. and Father Frascati Dr. — public improvement — contracts — C.W. Courtney
Co. — design the improvement (Ward 15) (O 999-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1212-1263

Safety Department
Cuyahoga Community College — professional service — contracts — Training for Divisions
of Police, Fire, and Emergency Medical Service (O 989-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1202
Emergency Police Alarms — repeal sects. and enact new Sects 670A.01 to 670A.10 (O 1059-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1204
Increase Impounding and Towing Fees — amend Section 405.06 (O 857-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1262
Deed of easement — Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company — East 101st St., 1935 — Fire
Station No. 10 (Ward 07) (O 852-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1261

Sewers
Sewerage Service Rates Within Cleveland — amend Section 543.02 (O 1030-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1204

State Of Ohio
Canal Road Bridge removal and replacement — consent — Capital Projects Office — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) (O 843-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1257

Street Vacation
West 21st St., and Moore Ave., N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects
Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (R 1031-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1212

Utilities Department
BIG Wireless, LLC — professional services — contracts — Level 3 support and maintenance,
hardware upgrades (O 831-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1256
Debris disposal at landfills — Cleveland Public Power Division — Water Division — Water
Pollution Control Division (O 849-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1260
Distribution Water Mains — public improvements contracts — Cleaning, Cement Mortar
Lining and Replacement, 2014 and 2015 — amend Ord. 1105-13 (O 982-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Exercise option to renew for optional residential warranties — amend Contract No. 69444
with Dominion -Water and Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract and
Protection Plan Program — Water Heater Repair and Replacement Plan (O 988-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1202
Henninger Road and Wildlife Way — deeds of easements — Combined Sewer Overflow (CSO)
Project 049/050 — NEORSD -Works Department (O 721-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1254
Massie Ave., Rockwell Ave., and Rosecliff Avenue sewer replacement projects — public
improvement contracts (O 991-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1203
Meter Automation Reading System, replacement and water loss control program — amend
Contract No. CT 2002 2010-257 with Itron, Inc. (O 983-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Professional Service — contract — provide comprehensive financial plan, service studies,
and fee analysis for the years 2016 through 2020 (O 993-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1203
Public Improvement — contract — Lake Road Substation Transformer repair (O 1000-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1213-1263
Sewerage Service Rates Within Cleveland — amend Section 543.02 (O 1030-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1204
Valves, actuators, and appurtenances — contracts — Water Division (O 850-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1260
Water Revenue Refunding bonds — Finance Department -Water Division (O 985-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1195

Ward 01
Aden, Sr., Rev. John Wesley — Condolence (R 1071-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Ashley Family Reunion — Recognition (R 1093-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Lewis, Diana Marie — Condolence (R 1072-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Mac’s Sports Grill LLC — promoting new job creation — agreement — Economic Development
Department (Ward 01 CRF) (O 1028-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264

1276

August 27, 2014

The City Record

89

Ward 02
Dove Ave., 10808 (1st fl.) — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1066-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1223-1246
East 116th St., 3643 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1067-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1224-1247
East 116th St., 3705 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1068-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1224-1247
East 131st St., 4096 — objection to transfer of location — liquor permit (R 1006-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1216-1239
East 131st St., 4096 — transfer of location application — liquor permit (F 1048-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Miles Ave., 12301 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 946-13 — liquor permit
(R 1017-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220-1243
Summer Student Internship Program — Summer on the Cuyahoga — agreement — Community
Development Department (Ward(s) 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 CRF)
(O 1029-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264

Ward 03
Bridge Ave., 3000 N.W. — encroach into right-of-way-entry-area ADA ramp and stair —
WSCH, LLC — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (O 836-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1256
Childhood Cancer Awareness Month — September (R 1025-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1222-1245
Detroit Ave., 2920 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1049-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Detroit Ave., 2920 (patio) — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1003-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1239
East 4th St., 2061 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1053-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Economic Development — agreements — Higbee Mothership, LLC for uses of service payments
at Public Square (O 981-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Euclid Ave., 850 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1009-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1217-1240
Euclid Ave., 850 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1051-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Group Plan Commission — contracts — redevelopment of Public Square, the construction of
improvements to Malls B and C — pedestrian and bicycle bridge to connect Mall C to
the North Coast Harbor District (O 1061-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1206
Lorain Ave. (between Columbus Rd. and West 17th St.) — change Use, Area and Height
Districts — City Planning Commission (O 1604-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1249
Lorain Ave., 4506 (1st fl.) — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1015-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1219-1242
Lutheran Hospital — Pathway to Excellence Award — Recognition (R 1094-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Massie Ave., Rockwell Ave., and Rosecliff Avenue sewer replacement projects — public
improvement contracts — Utilities Department (O 991-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1203
North side of Marquardt Ave. (between West 7th St. and West 5th St.) — Establishing new
mapped setbacks on parcels — City Planning Commission (O 994-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1207
Promoting Meatless Mondays (R 1065-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1223-1246
Prospect Ave., 1222 (1st fl. and bsmt.) — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1018-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220-1243
Public Sq., 75 (Suite B-100) — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 917-13 — liquor
permit (R 1019-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220-1243
Public Works — lease — Oxbow Building located at Riverbed St., 1283 — Downtown Cleveland
Alliance (O 847-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1260
Reichsman, Dr. Ann B. — Appreciation (R 1097-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Summer Student Internship Program — Summer on the Cuyahoga — agreement — Community
Development Department (Ward(s) 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 CRF)
(O 1029-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264
Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure — permit — Sept. 13th — Hermes Sports & Events (O 1063-14) . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1265
The Rock n Roll Half Marathon — permit — Oct. 11 — Competitor Group (O 1062-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1265
West 21st St., and Moore Ave., N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects
Office — City Planning Commission (R 1031-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1212
West 6th St., 1261-65 (1st fl. and patio) — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1024-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1222-1245
West 9th St., 1300 — stock application — liquor permit (F 1054-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

Ward 04
Bailey, David B. — Appreciation (R 1096-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Summer Student Internship Program — Summer on the Cuyahoga — agreement — Community
Development Department (Ward(s) 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 CRF)
(O 1029-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264

Ward 05
Apply and accept HUD 108 Empowerment Zone loan — contract — Victory Midtown for Victory
Bldg., Euclid Ave., 7012 (O 463-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1224-1252
Butler, Rev. Stephen Marcus — Congratulations (R 1084-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Cedar Extension Redevelopment Phase II — Community College Avenue and East 30th St. —
utilize multifamily funding programs — Ralph A. Falbo Inc. — OHFA (F 1036-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Kinsman Rd., East 79th St. — deed of easement — Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District
(NEORSD) — Urban Agriculture Green Infrastructure Project (O 720-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1224-1252
New Bethlehem Baptist Church (90th Anniversary) — Congratulations (R 1085-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Summer Student Internship Program — Summer on the Cuyahoga — agreement — Community
Development Department (Ward(s) 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 ,9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 CRF)
(O 1029-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264

1277

The City Record

90

August 27, 2014

Ward 06
East 116th St., 3600 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 937-13 — liquor permit
(R 1005-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1216-1239
East 89th St., 2355 — new application — liquor permit (F 1047-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Hines, Maurice — Welcome (R 1098-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Kinsman Ave., 9203 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 938-13 — liquor permit
(R 1013-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1219-1242
Morton-McCurdy, Devonte — Condolence (R 1073-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Summer Student Internship Program — Summer on the Cuyahoga — agreement — Community
Development Department (Ward(s) 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 CRF)
(O 1029-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264

Ward 07
East 21st St., 1417-23 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1004-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1216-1239
Linwood Ave., 7038 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1625-12 —
liquor permit (R 1014-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1219-1242
Mitchell-Monroe, Mother Roy — Congratulations (R 1091-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Payne Ave., 3211 — transfer of location application — liquor permit (F 1042-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Public Safety — deed of easement — Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company — East 101st
St., 1935 — Fire Station No. 10 (O 852-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1261
St. Clair Ave., 5510 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 566-14 —
liquor permit (R 1021-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1221-1244
Summer Student Internship Program — Summer on the Cuyahoga — agreement — Community
Development Department (Ward(s) 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 CRF)
(O 1029-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264
Superior Ave., 3610 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1022-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1221-1244
Washington, Henry William — Condolence (R 1076-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

Ward 08
Choma, Thelma — Condolence (R 1069-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
East 185th St., 770 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1624-13 —
liquor permit (R 1008-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1217-1240
East 185th St., 910 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1007-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1217-1240
East 185th St., 910 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1040-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Holy Redeemer Parish (90th Anniversary) — Congratulations (R 1082-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Job Corps Program (50th Anniversary) — Congratulations (R 1083-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Massie Ave., Rockwell Ave., and Rosecliff Avenue sewer replacement projects — public
improvement contracts — Utilities Department (O 991-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1203
Slovenian National Home (100th Anniversary) and Hall (90th Anniversary) — Congratulations
(R 1081-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Summer Student Internship Program — Summer on the Cuyahoga — agreement — Community
Development Department (Ward(s) 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 CRF)
(O 1029-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264
Waterloo Rd., 15802 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 1023-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1221-1244

Ward 09
Adams, Matthew & Inez — 70th Wedding Anniversary — Congratulations (R 1078-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Dillard, Pastor Barbara A. — Congratulations (R 1079-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
East 105th St., 917 — transfer of location application — liquor permit (F 1046-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Ellis, Bishop J. Delano — Congratulations (R 1080-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Euclid Ave., 11625 — new application — liquor permit (F 1045-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Fathers and Families Together Program — promoting effective parenting skills —
The Centers for Families and Children — agreements — Community Development
(Ward 09 CRF) (O 1026-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1213-1264
Johnson, Sophia Yvonne — Condolence (R 1077-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Massie Ave., Rockwell Ave., and Rosecliff Avenue sewer replacement projects — public
improvement contracts — Utilities Department (O 991-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1203
Summer Student Internship Program — Summer on the Cuyahoga — agreement — Community
Development Department (Ward(s) 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 CRF)
(O 1029-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264

Ward 10
Euclid Ave., 18029 — objection to transfer of location — liquor permit (R 1010-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1218-1241
Euclid Ave., 18314 (Unit D) — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal
Res. 885-14 — liquor permit (F 1057-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1245 1222
Green, Roberta — Condolence (R 1075-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Jackson, Sr., Rev. John D. — Congratulations (R 1090-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
James, Howard — Condolence (R 1074-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Kinsman Dazz Band — Recognition (R 1092-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

1278

August 27, 2014

The City Record

91

Ward 11
Lorain Ave., 10323 and 10327 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1043-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Resseger, William “ Bill “ — Congratulations (R 1086-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Summer Student Internship Program — Summer on the Cuyahoga — agreement — Community
Development Department (Ward(s) 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 CRF)
(O 1029-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264
West 105th St., 3312 — new application — liquor permit (F 1052-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

Ward 12
Community Assessment & Treatment Services — CATS on Broadway Gala — Congratulations
(R 1087-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Harvard Ave., 7910 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1058-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1222-1245
Independence Rd., 3578 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1204-13 —
liquor permit (R 1012-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1218-1241
Plummer-Roquemore, Birdie Elaine — Condolence (R 1070-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Resseger, William “ Bill “ — Congratulations (R 1086-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Summer Student Internship Program — Summer on the Cuyahoga — agreement — Community
Development Department (Ward(s) 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 CRF)
(O 1029-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264

Ward 13
Agami, Daniel, Private First Class, United States Army — Commemoration (R 1100-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Bowen, Samuel R., Private First Class, United States Army — Commemoration (R 1101-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Childhood Cancer Awareness Month — September (R 1025-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1222-1245
Collins, Tom — Congratulations (R 1089-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Community Assessment & Treatment Services — CATS on Broadway Gala — Congratulations
(R 1087-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Dowdy, Robert J. , First Sergeant, United States Army — Commemoration (R 1102-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Eckfield, Jr., Robert F., Lance Corporal, United States Marine Corps — Commemoration
(R 1103-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Fabrizi, Jason J., Sergeant First Class, United States Army — Commemoration (R 1104-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Garmback, Jr., Joseph Martin, Specialist, United States Army — Commemoration (R 1105-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Henninger Road and Wildlife Way — deeds of easements — Combined Sewer Overflow (CSO)
Project 049/050 — NEORSD — Utilities Department — Works Department (O 721-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1254
King, Charles M., First Sergeant, United States Army — Commemoration (R 1106-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Memphis Ave., 6101 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1016-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1219-1242
Reichsman, Dr. Ann B. — Appreciation (R 1097-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Richardson, Sgt. Michael W. — Badge #9804 — Congratulations (R 1088-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Ridge Rd., 3837 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1020-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220-1243
Ruiz, David A. Mendez, Lance Corporal, United States Martine Corps — Commemoration
(R 1107-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Schroeder, II, Edward August — Lance Corporal, United States Marine Corps. —
Commemoration (R 1099-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Summer Student Internship Program — Summer on the Cuyahoga — agreement — Community
Development Department (Ward(s) 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 CRF)
(O 1029-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264

Ward 14
Capital Projects — agreements — Ohio Department of Transportation(ODOT) — constructing
landscaping medians at W. 25th Street Bridge (O 1060-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264
Clark Ave. (between Train Ave. and W. 41st St.) — change Use District — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 14, 15) (O 1435-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1247
Reichsman, Dr. Ann B. — Appreciation (R 1097-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
St. Rocco 5K Run — permit — Aug. 30th — St. Rocco Festival Committee (O 1064-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1265
Summer Student Internship Program — Summer on the Cuyahoga — agreement — Community
Development Department (Ward(s) 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 CRF)
(O 1029-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264
Walton Ave., 3619 — new application — liquor permit (F 1044-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
West 25th St., 3203 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1055-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
West 25th St., 3474 — stock application — liquor permit (F 1041-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

Ward 15
Clark Ave. (between Train Ave. and W. 41st St.) — change Use District — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 14, 15) (O 1435-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1247
Community Development — Leases By Way of Concession — Detroit
Shoreway Community Development Organization — Cleveland Public Theatre —
Near West Theater, Inc. — maintaining and operating parking lots (O 846-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1259
Denison Ave., 6501 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1052-13 — liquor permit
(R 1002-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1238
Franklin Blvd., 5105 — new application — liquor permit (F 1050-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Franklin Blvd., 5105 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 1011-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1218-1241
Lake Ave. (West of) Clifton Blvd. — change Use and Area Districts — City Planning
Commission (O 998-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1211

1279

The City Record

92

August 27, 2014

North side of Clifton Blvd. (between West 117th St. and West 116th St.) — removing the
existing mapped front setbacks on parcels — City Planning Commission (O 996-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1209
Reichsman, Dr. Ann B. — Appreciation (R 1097-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Southeast corner of West 115th St. and Lake Ave. — Establishing new mapped setbacks on
parcels — City Planning Commission (O 995-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1208
Weapons of Mass Creation Program — educational workshop on entrepreneurship — Go Media
or Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — agreement — Community
Development (Ward 15 CRF) (O 1027-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264
West 105th St., 3021 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1056-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
West 115th St. (southeast corner) and Lake Ave. — change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (O 997-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1210
West 73rd St. and Father Frascati Dr. — public improvement — contracts — right-of-way —
C.W. Courtney Co. — design the improvement (O 999-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1212-1263

Ward 16
Ashley Family Reunion — Recognition (R 1093-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Borges, Matthew J. — Recognition (R 1095-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Reichsman, Dr. Ann B. — Appreciation (R 1097-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Summer Student Internship Program — Summer on the Cuyahoga — agreement — Community
Development Department (Ward(s) 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 CRF)
(O 1029-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264

Ward 17
Summer Student Internship Program — Summer on the Cuyahoga — agreement — Community
Development Department (Ward(s) 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 CRF)
(O 1029-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1264

Water Division
BIG Wireless, LLC — professional services — contracts — Level 3 support and maintenance,
hardware upgrades (O 831-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225-1256
Debris disposal at landfills — Cleveland Public Power Division — Utilities Department —
Water Pollution Control Division (O 849-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1260
Distribution Water Mains — public improvements contracts — Cleaning, Cement Mortar Lining
and Replacement, 2014 and 2015 — amend Ord. 1105-13 (O 982-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Meter Automation Reading System, replacement and water loss control program — amend
Contract No. CT 2002 2010-257 with Itron, Inc. (O 983-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Sewerage Service Rates Within Cleveland — amend Section 543.02 (O 1030-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1204
Valves, actuators, and appurtenances — contracts — Utilities Department (O 850-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1260
Water Revenue Refunding bonds — Finance Department — Utilities Department (O 985-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1195

Water Mains
Distribution Water Mains — public improvements contracts — Cleaning, Cement Mortar Lining
and Replacement, 2014 and 2015 — amend Ord. 1105-13 (O 982-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194

Water Pollution Control Division (WPC)
Debris disposal at landfills — Cleveland Public Power Division — Utilities Department —
Water Division (O 849-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1260

Welcome
Hines, Maurice (R 1098-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

Zoning
Clark Ave. (between Train Ave. and W. 41st St.) — change Use District — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 14, 15) (O 1435-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1247
Lake Ave.(west of) Clifton Blvd. — change Use and Area Districts — City Planning Commission
(Ward 15) (O 998-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1211
Lorain Ave. (between Columbus Rd. and West 17th St.) — change Use, Area and Height
Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1604-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1226-1249
North side of Clifton Blvd. (between West 117th St. and West 116th St.) — removing the
existing mapped front setbacks on parcels — City Planning Commission (Ward 15)
(O 996-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1209
North side of Marquardt Ave. (between West 7th St. and West 5th St.) — Establishing new
mapped setbacks on parcels — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 994-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1207
Southeast corner of West 115th St. and Lake Ave. — Establishing new mapped setbacks on
parcels — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 995-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1208
West 115th St. (southeast corner) and Lake Ave. — change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 997-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1210

1280

