The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

April the Thirtieth, Two Thousand and Fourteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

16

Board of Control

16

Civil Service

18

1 Terrell H. Pruitt

Board of Zoning Appeals

21

2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
22

4 Kenneth L. Johnson

Public Notice

24

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

26

6 Mamie J. Mitchell

City of Cleveland Bids

26

7 TJ Dow

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

27

Committee Meetings

42

Index

42

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Jeffrey D. Johnson
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Martin J. Sweeney
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zack Reed ..........................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Martin J. Flask, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Special Projects
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Paul Bender, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – George Baker, Interim Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – _____________, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Eugene R. Miller, (Board Lawyer), Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice
Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary
Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa
Ryan, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth
Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member _____________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Robert N. Brown, Allan Dreyer, Giancarlo Calicchia, Council Member
Terrell H. Pruitt, Robert Vilkas, Donald Petit, Interim Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Ed Wade – Courtroom 12A
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Chief Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30, 2014

Vol. 101

No. 5238

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, APRIL 28, 2014
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2014-2017

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:

COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 552-14.

Mayor's Appointments Committee:
Sweeney (CHAIR), Brady, Cleveland, Dow, Kelley.
Operations
Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR), Kelley, Keane, Mitchell,
Zone.
Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Keane, Pruitt.

Kelley
Cummins,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS

April 22, 2014
Allan Dreyer, Deputy Clerk
Cleveland City Council
601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 220
Cleveland, Ohio
Dear Mr. Dreyer:
You are requested, without objection of Cleveland City Council, to
serve as Clerk of Council Pro Tempore for all matters requiring the
Clerk’s signature between April 22
and April 24, 2014.
Your assistance is appreciated.

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman
(CHAIR), Mitchell (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Property Committee: K. Johnson
(CHAIR), Sweeney (VICE-CHAIR),
Brancatelli, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, Reed.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley (CHAIR), Cleveland (VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Cimperman, Cummins, Dow, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR),
Brady
(VICEBrancatelli,
Cummins,
CHAIR),
Keane, Mitchell, Polensek.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Zone (VICE-CHAIR),
J.Johnson, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Sweeney.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone
(CHAIR),
Conwell
(VICECHAIR), Cimperman, Dow, K.Johnson, Keane, Polensek.
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Dow
(VICE-CHAIR), Conwell, J. Johnson,
K.Johnson, Reed, Sweeney.

Sincerely,
Kevin J. Kelley
Council President

______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, April 28, 2014
The meeting of the Council was
called to order with the President
of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the
Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady, Anthony Brancatelli, Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Brian J. Cummins,
TJ Dow, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Kenneth L. Johnson, Martin J. Keane,
Kevin J. Kelley, Mamie J. Mitchell,
Michael D. Polensek, Terrell H.
Pruitt,
Zack
Reed,
Martin
J.
Sweeney and Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Government
Affairs Valarie J. McCall, Chief of
Communications Maureen Harper,
Chief
of
Sustainability
Jenita
McGowan, Chief of Public Affairs
Natoya Walker-Minor, and Directors
Langhenry,
Smith,
Spronz,
McGrath,
Cox,
Rush,
Rybka,
Southerington,
Griffin,
Fumich,
Acting Director Gentile and Interim Director Baker.
Council
Members,
Administration, Staff, and those in the audience rose for a moment of silent
reflection, and the Pledge of Allegiance.

Received.
File No. 553-14.
From Office of Equal Opportunity,
City of Cleveland. Bi-Monthly Status
Report for April 2014, including City
Resident
Utilization
Report.
Received.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 554-14.
RE: #2379373. New License Application,
D5J.
Dybac,
LLC,
11311
Euclid Avenue (Ward 6). Received.
File No. 555-14.
RE:
#56598710005.
Transfer
of
Ownership
Application,
C2
C2X.
MAYT, Inc., 951 Linn Drive (Ward
9). Received.
File No. 556-14.
RE: #2215355. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A.
DLS Entertainment, LLC, 9401-03
Denison
Avenue
(Ward
11).
Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 573-14—Oberta Lavada
Lewis.
Res. No. 574-14—Hattie Belle (Oliver) Miller.
Res.
No.
575-14—Mary
Louise
(Hart) Simmons.

MOTION
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
On the motion of Council Member Conwell, the reading of the
minutes of the last meeting was
dispensed with and the journal
approved.
Seconded
by
Council
Member Brady.

565

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 576-14—Friendly Inn Settlement, Inc. — 140th Anniversary.

The City Record

4
Res. No. 577-14—Loretha James.
Res. No. 578-14—Dorothy Marie
Harris.
Res. No. 579-14—Joseph A. Marinucci.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 580-14—Lawrence Drummer, Jr.
Res. No. 581-14—Pro Football Hall
of Fame Fan Fest.
Res. No. 582-14—Greater Bethel
A.M.E.
Church/2014
Youngstown
District Conference.
WELCOME RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 583-14—Brown-Price-Patterson Family Reunion.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 557-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more contracts with Medifax-EDI, LLC to electronically validate medical insurance coverage, subscriber information, and benefit services for patients receiving emergency medical treatment from the
Divisions of Emergency Medical Service or Fire, or from the Department
of Port Control; and to enter into a
non-exclusive subscriber services
agreement, for a period of one year,
with two one-year options to renew,
exercisable by the Director of
Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with MedifaxEDI, LLC to electronically validate
medical insurance coverage, subscriber information, and benefit services for patients receiving emergency medical treatment from the
Divisions of Emergency Medical Service or Fire or from the Department of
Port Control, for the Department of
Finance, for a period of one year, with
two one-year options to renew, exercisable by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance, is authorized to enter into a
non-exclusive subscriber services
agreement with Medifax-EDI, LLC to
implement this ordinance. The agreement authorized in this section may
include the City’s obligation to pay a
one-time subscription fee and also ongoing subscription and service fees
for the term of the agreement, and
shall run coterminous with the contract or contracts authorized in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 3. That the costs of the contract or contracts and applicable subscription and service fees authorized
by this ordinance shall be paid from

Fund No. 01-1503-6320, Request No.
RQS 1503, RL 2014-49.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 558-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more contracts with Medifax-EDI, LLC to submit electronic
medical claims and provide clearinghouse services to electronically submit and distribute medical claims to
medical insurance payors for patients
receiving emergency medical treatment from the Divisions of Emergency Medical Service or Fire, or from
the Department of Port Control; and
to enter into a non-exclusive subscriber services agreement, for a period of one year, with two one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with MedifaxEDI, LLC to submit electronic medical claims and provide clearinghouse
services to electronically submit and
distribute medical claims to medical
insurance payors for patients receiving emergency medical treatment
from the Divisions of Emergency
Medical Service or Fire or from the
Department of Port Control, for the
Department of Finance, for a period
of one year, with two one-year options
to renew, exercisable by the Director
of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance, is authorized to enter into a
non-exclusive subscriber services
agreement with Medifax-EDI, LLC to
implement this ordinance. The agreement authorized in this section may
include the City’s obligation to pay a
one-time subscription fee and also ongoing subscription and service fees
for the term of the agreement, and
shall run coterminous with the contract or contracts authorized in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 3. That the costs of the contract or contracts and applicable subscription and service fees authorized
by this ordinance shall be paid from
Fund No. 01-1503-6320, Request No.
RQS 1503, RL 2014-48.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

566

April 30, 2014
Ord. No. 559-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Cuyahoga County Board of Health for
the 2014-15 Public Health Emergency
Preparedness Grant Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $169,269, and any other
funds as they become available during the grant term, from the Cuyahoga County Board of Health to conduct the 2014-15 Public Health Emergency Preparedness Grant Program;
that the Director of Public Health is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes set forth in the administrative summary for the grant contained in the file described below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 559-14-A, is made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, is
approved in all respects, and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process. The contracts will be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited any grant
funds accepted under this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees on
Health and Human Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 560-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more requirement
contracts with Siemens Industry, Inc.
for labor and materials necessary to

April 30, 2014
maintain, repair and expand the
existing Apogee building automation
system, for the Division of Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport,
Department of Port Control, for a period not to exceed two years, with two
one-year options to renew, the first of
which requires additional legislative
authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council has
determined that the within services
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Siemens Industry, Inc. Therefore, the
Director of Port Control is authorized
to make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a
period not to exceed two years, with
two one-year options to renew, the
first of which requires additional legislative authority, of the necessary
items of labor and materials necessary to maintain, repair, and expand
the existing Apogee building automation system, which includes, but is not
limited to, interior and exterior lighting systems, HVAC control and
alarming for mechanical equipment
and
lighting
controls,
boilers,
chillers, cooling towers, pumps, and
air handlers, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Department of Port Control. The first
of the one-year options to renew may
not be exercised without additional
legislative authority. If such additional legislative authority is granted
and the first of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the second of
the one-year options to renew may be
exercisable at the option of the Director of Port Control, without the necessity of obtaining additional authority
of this Council.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 3001, RL 2014-12)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 561-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Multi-Phased Option to
Lease Agreement and resulting Lease
Agreements with to-be-formed limited
liability companies, for property commonly known as the Harbor West
Docks, and three sites at North Coast
Harbor for future development.

The City Record
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain specific development
sites at North Coast Harbor that for
the purpose of this ordinance shall
be referred to as Site A- the
Voinovich parking lot off of East
Ninth Street Pier, Site B- the Skate
Park area north of the Rock and
Roll
Hall
of
Fame
Museum
(“RRHF”), Site C-the Grass and
Steps located between the Great
Lakes Science Center (“GLSC”) and
the RRHF, plus certain development
sites north of First Energy Stadium
consisting of Site D- Dock 32, Site
E- Dock 30 and Site F – Dock 28B,
totaling approximately 21 acres of
real property (“Project Site”); and
Whereas, a to-be-formed Delaware
limited liability company owned by
CUMBERLAND LAKEFRONT, LLC,
an Ohio limited liability company
(“Cumberland”) and HIGH STREET
CLEVELAND LAKEFRONT, INC., a
Delaware corporation wholly owned
by TRAMMELL CROW COMPANY,
LLC, a Delaware limited liability
company (“TCC”, and together with
the Cumberland, “Developer”) would
like to enter into a Multi-Phased
Option to Lease Agreement (“Option
Agreement”) with the City in order
for Developer to market the Project
Site for future development; and
Whereas, Developer’s plan envisions approximately 1,000 residential
apartments, 80,000 square feet of
commercial office space, and 40,000
square feet of retail and restaurant
space (“Project”) and has multiple
end-users interested in locating their
respective businesses to the Project
Site; and
Whereas, Developer’s plan further
envisions the creation of a walkable
neighborhood
served
by
public
parks and trails and the addition of
water-based recreational facilities
accessible throughout the year to
the general public; and
Whereas, Developer’s plan will
advance the City of Cleveland’s
goals as set forth in the Cleveland
Downtown Lakefront Development
Plan adopted April 20, 2012 by the
Cleveland City Planning Commission; and
Whereas, Developer proposes to
undertake this Project at the Project Site in the following Phases:
Phase I:
Site A (Voinovich Parking Lot,
approximately 1 acre)
Development may include restaurant and public restrooms. Building
height may be one or two stories.
Site B (Skate Park, approximately
1/2 acre)
Development may include restaurant and general retail. Building
height may be two or three stories.
Site C (Parcel between RRHF and
GLSC, approximately 1 acre)
Development may include restaurants, general retail and possible
hotel.
Site D (Dock 32, approximately 6
acres)
Development may include approximately 250 residential units, 80,000 sf
of office space, parking, restaurants,
and general retail.
Phase II:
Site E (Dock 30, approximately 6
acres)
Development may include approximately 400 residential units, office,
general retail and parking.

567

5
Phase III:
Site F (Dock 28, approximately 6
acres)
Development may include approximately 400 residential units, office,
general retail and parking;
and
Whereas, each identified Phase of
the Project will be subject to a separate Lease Agreement between the
City
and
separate
to-be-formed
Delaware limited liability companies controlled by Developer, each
of which will be executed pursuant
to the terms and conditions contained in the Option Agreement; and
Whereas, the recommendation to
select Developer was the result of a
thorough
and
open
competitive
process; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. notwithstanding and as
an exception to the provisions of
Chapters 181 (Purchases and Supplies) and 183 (Real Estate Transactions) of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into the Option Agreement and related Lease Agreements with Developer
for the Project Site as illustrated by
the map placed in File No. 561-14-A. A
copy of the approved legal description will be placed in the file when it
is obtained.
Section 2. That following the date
the Option Agreement is fully executed (“Effective Date“), the Developer
shall have the right to exercise its
option to lease each Phase of the Project pursuant to the Option Agreement as follows:
Phase I: Developer shall have the
option to lease Sites A-D for a period
of one (1) year following the Effective Date.
Phase II: Developer shall have the
option to lease Site E for a period of
three (3) years following the Effective Date.
Phase III: Developer shall have the
option to lease Site F for a period of
four (4) years following the Effective
Date.
In the event the Developer has properly exercised an option to lease a
Phase of the Project pursuant to the
Option Agreement and is diligently
working toward completion of the
development of that Phase, then, the
date for exercise of the option to lease
for other Phases of the Project may be
extended for an additional period of
one (1) year, exercisable by the Director of Port Control.
Section 3. That, as consideration for
the Option Agreement, Developer is
willing to invest in preliminary
designs, architectural plans, site condition reports, utility analysis, hotel
and residential feasibility studies,
Phase I environmental survey, soil
borings, geotechnical testing, and
title searches and surveys of the Project Site with an estimated cost to
Developer of $784,000.
As further consideration for the
Option Agreement, Developer shall
provide the Director of Port Control
with either copies or co-ownership
rights as requested, to all environmental, survey, title and other site
condition reports procured with
regard to the Project Site.

6
Section 4. That upon securing one
or more financing proposals, Developer may exercise its option to lease for
a particular Phase of the Project,
retaining any options for the remaining Phases within the Project. Upon
exercise by Developer of its option to
lease a particular Phase of the Project, the Director of Port Control is
authorized to enter into a Lease
Agreement for that Phase of the Project.
Section 5. That the Option Agreement and related Lease Agreements
shall contain the primary terms and
conditions found in the Legislative
Summary and placed in the abovementioned file, and made a part of
this Ordinance as if fully rewritten,
which terms and conditions are
approved in all respects.
Section 6. That the Option Agreement and related Lease Agreements
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, and approved by the Director of
Port Control and Board of Control.
Section 7. That the Director of Port
Control, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute the Option
Agreement and any other documents,
instruments and certificates, and
take any other actions which may be
necessary or appropriate to effect the
Option Agreement and related Lease
Agreements authorized by this Ordinance and are authorized to sign and
deliver and accept delivery of such
documents, instruments and certificates as shall be necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions authorized by this Ordinance.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 562-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional consultants to provide technical support
and maintenance of core information
technology activities, and other related services, for a period of one year,
with three one-year options to renew,
the second of which requires additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to provide technical support and maintenance of core information technology
activities, and other related services,
for a period of one year, with three
one-year options to renew, the second
of which requires additional legislative authority. The first of the one-

The City Record
year options to renew may be exercised by the Director of Port Control,
without the necessity of obtaining
additional authority of this Council.
The second of the one-year options to
renew may not be exercised without
additional legislative authority. If
such additional legislative authority
is granted and the second of the oneyear options to renew is exercised,
then the third of the one-year options
to renew may be exercisable at the
option of the Director of Port Control,
without the necessity of obtaining
additional authority of this Council.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Port Control from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Port Control for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF
104, 60 SF 106, 60 SF 141, and from the
fund or subfunds to which are credited the proceeds of any grants
received and passenger facility
charges, if authorized for this purpose, Request No. RQS 3001, RL 201428.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committess on
Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 563-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
employ one or more professional consultants to provide construction
inspections, tree and tree root evaluations, assessments, and other related
services under the Citywide Tree
Damaged Sidewalk Program; determining the method of making the public improvement of removing and
replacing sidewalk panels damaged
by tree roots and implementing recommendations of the consultants
regarding tree and tree root removal;
authorizing the Director to enter into
one or more public improvement contracts to implement the program; and
authorizing the Director to apply for
and accept grants or gifts from various entities for this program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff

568

April 30, 2014
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary for construction inspection services, and
other related services under the Citywide Tree Damaged Sidewalk Program.
Section 2. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary for tree
and tree root evaluations, assessments, and other related services
under the Citywide Tree Damaged
Sidewalk Program.
Section 3. The selection of the consultants for the services shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination of the Director of Capital
Projects from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Capital Projects for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation to
be paid for the services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract
or contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Capital
Projects, and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 4. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of removing and
replacing sidewalk panels damaged
by tree roots and implementing recommendations of the consultants
regarding tree and tree root removal;
authorizing the Director to enter into
one or more public improvement contracts to implement the program, for
the Department of Capital Projects,
by one or more contracts duly let to
the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a
unit basis for the Improvement.
Section 5. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the Improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the Improvement, provided, however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the
Improvement may be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any
combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate
contract on a unit basis.
Section 6. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 7. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply for
and accept grants or gifts from various public or private entities to implement this ordinance; the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in this ordinance.
Section 8. That the cost of the contracts and other expenditures authorized shall be paid from Fund Nos. 20
SF 394, 20 SF 510, 20 SF 520, 20 SF 534,
20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, and
from the fund or funds from which are
credited any grants or gifts received

April 30, 2014
under this ordinance, Request No.
RQS 0103, RL 2014-43.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.
Ord. No. 567-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 523.21 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 216-12,
passed April 16, 2012, relating to the
energy adjustment charge; and to
enact new Section 523.196 of the Codified Ordinances relating to electric
service agreements with commercial
customers.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the rates, rules, and
regulations of the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, for electrical service,
fixed by the Board of Control by Resolution No. _______, adopted _______,
are approved.
Section 2. That Section 523.21 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 216-12, passed April 16, 2012, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 523.21 Energy Adjustment
Charge
(a) An additional incremental
charge for excess fuel and power production and purchase power costs
may be applied to the rates prescribed
in Sections 523.02 to 523.065 and any
other rate schedule as may be adopted
by the City.
(b) The incremental charge shall
be based on the fuel and purchase
power cost per kilowatt hour delivered calculated under divisions
(c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section.
(c) (1) The fuel and purchase
power cost per kilowatt hour sold to
residential ratepayers shall be determined by dividing the sum of the cost
of the kilowatt hours purchased from
the Power Authority of the State of
New York and the average cost of
kilowatt hours purchased from other
sources needed to supply the residential customers by the total kilowatt
hours distributed to residential customers. The incremental charge calculated herein shall be adjusted by
subtracting fifteen (15) mils per kilowatt hour for residential customers
who provide the Division of Cleveland
Public Power with a certificate of
reduction of taxes obtained pursuant
to the Homestead Exemption provisions of Sections 323.151 through
323.157 of the Revised Code, and nine
and three-quarters (9.75) mils per
kilowatt hour for all other residential
customers.
(2) Except as provided in Section
523.048, the fuel and purchase power
cost per kilowatt hour sold to all
ratepayers, other than residential

The City Record
ratepayers, during the twelve (12)
months of the year, shall be determined by dividing the sum of the total
cost of coal, oil, gas and purchase
power by the total kilowatt hours distributed, except that the computation
shall exclude the cost of PASNY
power and the amount of PASNY
power allocable to kilowatt hours distributed, and shall exclude the costs
of all purchase power and kilowatt
hours from a specific source or
sources purchased by the Division for
distribution to ratepayers pursuant to
Sections 523.048 and 523.049. The
incremental charge calculated herein
shall be adjusted by subtracting three
(3.0) mils per kilowatt hour.
(d) At the end of each month, the
Division of Cleveland Public Power
shall determine the actual fuel and
power costs during such month as
herein provided and may adjust the
additional incremental charge for
future months to defer or over-recover
the total cost of power in order to stabilize customer bills.
Section 3. That existing Section
523.21 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 216-12, passed April 16,
2012, is repealed.
Section 4. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 523.196 to read as follows:
Section 523.196 Electric Service
Agreements with Commercial Customers
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Commissioner of Cleveland Public Power is authorized to enter into electric service
agreements with commercial customers whose peak demand is or will
be equal to or in excess of one hundred fifty (150) kilowatts that provide for the adjustment of the commercial customer’s rates and other
charges under the following terms
and conditions:
(a) The Division of Cleveland Public Power must recover not less than
the incremental cost to provide service to the commercial customer as
computed by the Division of Cleveland Public Power;
(b) The adjusted rates and other
charges may not exceed the rates and
charges in the otherwise applicable
rate schedule in this chapter;
(c) The adjustment must be made
at a level to retain net margins and so
that the resulting rates and charges
in combination with service levels
and length of contract provide competitive terms; and
(d) The necessity for the adjustment of rates and other charges must
be based on uniform criteria determined by the Commissioner and
approved by the Director of Public
Utilities, including, if applicable, that
a commercial customer’s existing contract is approaching expiration; a
bona fide offer has been made to a
commercial customer from an electric
competitor of the Division of Cleveland Public Power; the agreement
generates a positive contribution
margin in excess of that which would
be obtained by not entering into the
agreement; the agreement is necessary to protect Cleveland Public
Power’s service area, customer base
and revenue stream; the commercial
customer’s load profile provides a
beneficial contribution to Cleveland
Public Power’s load profile; and that
similarly situated commercial customers receive similar adjustments.

569

7
All electric service agreements
entered under this section shall have
a term of at least five years and shall
be valid and enforceable at law.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 568-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts for the transfer and disposal of solid waste, for the
Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Department of Public Works,
for a term of five years, with five oneyear options to renew, exercisable by
the Director of Public Works.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for a term
of five years, with five one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Public Works, for the necessary items of the transfer and disposal of solid waste, and the provision, as the Board of Control shall
determine, of the necessary landfill,
transfer station and/or materials
recovery facility requirements, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis for the
Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Department of Public Works.
Bids shall be taken in a manner that
permits an award to be made for all
items of services as a single contract,
or by separate contract for each or
any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is
made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Bids shall also be taken so as to permit an award to be made for provision
of such services citywide or by separate contracts for the districts determined by the Director of Public
Works.
Section 2. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Director of Public
Works may require that each bid be
accompanied by a single bond securing both the execution of a contract
and the performance of the term of
each contract. If a single bond securing both execution and performance
is required by the Director, it shall be
substantially in accordance with the
form attached as Exhibit “A”. Each
bond, whether to secure the execution
of a contract, its performance, or both,
shall be in an amount determined by

The City Record

8
the Director of Public Works. Each
bond submitted to secure the contract
or contracts authorized by this ordinance shall be executed by a surety
authorized to do business in the State
of Ohio and shall be acceptable to the
Director of Law.
Section 3. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN)
Section 4. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Works may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
BID GUARANTY AND
CONTRACT BOND
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS, that we the __________
______________________________________
______________________________________
(Name and Address)
as Principal and _____________________
(Name of Surety)
as Surety are hereby held and firmly bound unto the City of Cleveland,
hereinafter called the Obligee, in the
penal sum hereinafter stated, pertaining to the bid submitted by the
Principal
to
the
Obligee
on
____________________________ (date) to
undertake the project known _______
______________________________________
______________________________________
The penal sum referred to herein
shall be _____________________________
______________________________________
_____________________________. For the
payment of the penal sum well and
truly to be made, we hereby jointly
and severally bind ourselves, our
heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns.
THE CONDITION OF THE ABOVE
OBLIGATION IS SUCH, that whereas
the above named Principal has submitted a bid on the above referred project;
NOW, THEREFORE, if the Obligee
accepts the bid of the Principal and
the Principal fails to enter into a proper contract in accordance with the
bid, plans, details, specifications, and
bills of material; and in the event the
Principal pays to the Obligee the difference not to exceed ten percent of
the penalty hereof between the
amount specified in the bid and such
larger amount for which the Obligee
may in good faith contract with the
next lowest and best bidder to perform the work covered by the bid; or
in the event the Obligee does not
award the contract to the next lowest
and best bidder and resubmits the project for bidding, the Principal will

pay the Obligee the difference not to
exceed ten percent of the penalty
hereof between the amount specified
in the bid, or the costs in connection
with the resubmission, of printing
new contract documents, required
advertising, and printing and mailing
notices
to
prospective
bidders,
whichever is less, then this obligation
shall be void, otherwise to remain in
full force and effect. If the Obligee
accepts the bid of the Principal and
the Principal within ten days after
the awarding of the contract and submitting to the Principal a contract for
execution, enters into a proper contract in accordance with the bid,
plans, details, specifications, and
bills of material, which said contract
is made a part of this bond the same
as though set forth herein; and
IF THE SAID Principal shall well
and faithfully perform each and
every condition of such contract; and
indemnify the Obligee against all
damage suffered by failure to perform such contract according to the
provisions thereof and in accordance
with the plans, details, specifications,
and bills of material therefor; and
shall pay all lawful claims of subcontractors, materialmen, and laborers
for labor performed and materials furnished in the carrying forward, performing, or completing said contract;
we agreeing and assenting that this
undertaking shall be for the benefit
of any materialman or laborer having
a just claim as well as for the Obligee
herein; then this obligation shall be
void; otherwise the same shall remain
in full force and effect; it being
expressly understood and agreed that
the liability of the Surety for any and
all claims hereunder shall in no event
exceed the penal amount of this obligation as herein stated.
THE SAID Surety hereby stipulates
and agrees that no modifications,
omissions, or additions, in or to the
terms of said contract or in or to the
plans and specifications therefor
shall in any wise affect the obligations of said Surety on this bond, and
it does hereby waive notice of any
such modifications, omissions or additions to the terms of the contract or to
the work or to the specifications.
SIGNED AND SEALED this _____
day of ___________, 20___.
PRINCIPAL:

SURETY:

_________________ ____________________
BY: ____________ BY: _______________
Attorney-in-Fact
TITLE: ________
SURETY COMPANY
ADDRESS:
____________________
Street
____________________
City   State
ZIP
SURETY AGENT’S
ADDRESS:
____________________
Agency Name
____________________
Street
____________________
City     State ZIP
“Exhibit A”

570

April 30, 2014
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Municipal Services and Properties,
Finance.
Ord. No. 572-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance of bonds by the City
for the purpose of refunding a portion
of the City’s currently outstanding
Public Power System Revenue Bonds
for restructuring; authorizing hedge
agreements; authorizing a supplemental indenture and certain other
documents related thereto; and authorizing and approving related matters.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
Ohio (the “City”), a municipal corporation and political subdivision in
and of the State of Ohio, is authorized
and empowered pursuant to Article
XVIII of the Constitution of the State
of Ohio and the Charter of the City,
among other things: (a) to own and
operate the public utility hereinafter
defined and referred to as “Cleveland
Public Power”; (b) to make, from time
to time, such additions, extensions,
improvements,
replacements
and
alterations to Cleveland Public Power
as it may deem advisable; (c) to borrow money for the purpose of providing funds for such additions, extensions, improvements, replacements
and alterations and to refund obligations issued for such purpose; (d) to
issue its bonds and notes in anticipation thereof, in evidence of money borrowed for such purpose in the manner
and on the terms set forth in the
Indenture, as hereinafter defined, and
to issue Series 2014 Refunding Bonds
to refund, in advance or otherwise,
such bonds or notes; and (e) to secure
any bonds, or notes issued in anticipation thereof, by a pledge of and lien on
the Net Revenues, as hereinafter
defined, of Cleveland Public Power;
and
Whereas, by and pursuant to Ordinance No. 1516-91, duly passed on
July 24, 1991 (the “Original Bond Legislation”), this Council authorized the
issuance of Public Power System
Improvement First Mortgage Revenue Bonds, dated September 1, 1991
in the aggregate principal amount of
$66,930,000 consisting of Series 1991A
Bonds in the aggregate amount of
$13,895,000 for the purposes of paying
Capital Costs and Series 1991B Bonds
in
the
aggregate
amount
of
$53,035,000 for the purpose of refunding all of the outstanding revenue
bonds that had previously been issued
for Cleveland Public Power (collectively herein the “Series 1991 Bonds”),
all as defined in the Original Bond
Legislation; and
Whereas, the Series 1991 Bonds
were issued under and secured on a
parity with any Additional Bonds by
a Trust Indenture, dated as of September 1, 1991 (the “Original Indenture”), between the City and Star
Bank, N.A., Cincinnati, Ohio, as
Trustee, now known as U.S. Bank
National Association (the “Trustee”);
and
Whereas, the Original Bond Legislation provides, in Section 12 thereof,
that the City may issue Additional
Bonds on a parity with the Series 1991
Bonds for certain purposes including
the payment of Capital Costs and the
refunding of obligations issued for
that purpose; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance No.
1133-93, duly passed on June 7, 1993,

April 30, 2014
this Council authorized the issuance
of Additional Bonds, entitled Public
Power System First Mortgage Revenue Bonds, Series 1994A (the “Series
1994A Bonds”), in the aggregate principal amount of $179,775,000, for the
purpose of providing funds for Capital Costs and to refund notes issued
for such purpose; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance No.
55-94, duly passed on June 6, 1994, this
Council authorized the issuance of
Additional Bonds, entitled Public
Power System First Mortgage Revenue Bonds, Series 1994B (the “Series
1994B Bonds”) in the aggregate principal amount of $39,330,000, for the
purpose of providing funds for the
payment of a judgment involving the
City and Cleveland Public Power and
to refund notes issued for such purposes (the Series 1994A Bonds and the
Series 1994B Bonds are hereinafter
collectively referred to as the “Series
1994 Bonds”); and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance No.
1003-95, duly passed on June 19, 1995,
this Council authorized the issuance
of Additional Bonds entitled Public
Power System First Mortgage Revenue Bonds, Series 1996, Sub-Series 1
(the “Series 1996 Bonds”) in the aggregate principal amount of $123,720,000,
for the purpose of providing funds for
the refunding of a portion of the
Series 1994A Bonds; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance No.
816-98, duly passed on June 8, 1998,
this Council authorized the issuance
of Additional Bonds entitled Public
Power System Revenue Bonds, Series
1998 (the “Series 1998 Bonds”) in the
aggregate
principal
amount
of
$44,840,000, for the purpose of providing funds for the refunding of a portion of the Series 1991 Bonds and a
portion of the Series 1994A Bonds; and
Whereas, further pursuant to Ordinance No. 816-98, this Council authorized the issuance of Additional
Bonds entitled Public Power System
Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series
2001 (the “Series 2001 Bonds”) in the
aggregate
principal
amount
of
$41,925,000, for the purpose of providing funds for the current refunding of
a portion of the Series 1991 Bonds; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance No.
290-06, duly passed on March 20, 2006,
this Council authorized the issuance
of Additional Bonds entitled Public
Power System Refunding Revenue
Bonds, Series 2006A-1 (the “Series
2006A-1 Bonds”) in the aggregate
principal amount of $95,265,000, for
the purpose of providing funds for the
current refunding of a portion of the
Series 1996 Bonds; and
Whereas, further pursuant to Ordinance No. 290-06, this Council authorized the issuance of Additional
Bonds entitled Public Power System
Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series
2006A-2 (the “Series 2006A-2 Bonds”)
in the aggregate principal amount of
$12,295,000, for the purpose of providing funds for the advance refunding
of a portion of the Series 1994A Bonds;
and
Whereas, further pursuant to Ordinance No. 290-06, this Council authorized the issuance of Additional
Bonds entitled Public Power System
Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series
2006B (the “Series 2006B Bonds”) in
the aggregate principal amount of
$20,325,000, for the purpose of providing funds for the current refunding of
a portion of the Series 1996 Bonds (the
Series 2006A-1 Bonds, the Series
2006A-2 Bonds and the Series 2006B

The City Record
Bonds are hereinafter collectively
referred to as the “Series 2006
Bonds”); and
Whereas, further pursuant to Ordinance No. 290-06, the City entered into
the Amended and Restated Trust
Indenture (Sixth Supplemental Indenture), dated as of August 17, 2006,
amending, supplementing, restating
and superseding the Original Indenture as previously amended and supplemented; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance No.
64-08, this Council authorized the
issuance of Additional Bonds entitled
Public Power System Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series 2008A (the “Series
2008A Bonds”) in the aggregate principal amount of $21,105,000, for the
purpose of providing funds for the
current refunding of a portion of the
Series 2006B Bonds; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance No.
63-08, this Council authorized the
issuance of Additional Bonds entitled
Public Power System Revenue Bonds,
Series 2008B (the “Series 2008B
Bonds”) in the aggregate principal
amount of $72,607,880.25, for the purpose of providing funds for Capital
Costs; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance No.
895-10, this Council amended Ordinance No. 64-08 and authorized the
issuance of Additional Bonds entitled
Public Power System Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series 2010 (the “Series
2010 Bonds”) in the aggregate principal amount of $23,915,000, for the purpose of providing funds for the current refunding of all of the Series 1998
Bonds; and
Whereas, further pursuant to Ordinance No. 895-10, this Council authorized the issuance of Additional
Bonds entitled Public Power System
Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series
2012 (the “Series 2012 Bonds”) in the
aggregate
principal
amount
of
$15,325,000, for the purpose of providing funds for the current refunding of
all of the Series 2001 Bonds; and
Whereas, this Council has determined that the City may achieve further benefits by refunding certain
Outstanding Bonds through the
issuance and sale of Additional Bonds
(“Series 2014 Refunding Bonds”) and
thereby restructuring the Outstanding Bonds to better serve the purposes
of Cleveland Public Power and its
customers and the process for achieving those benefits may evolve over a
period of several years; and
Whereas, this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department and providing
for the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health or safety in that authorizing the Series 2014
Refunding Bonds to refund Outstanding Bonds is necessary to enable
Cleveland Public Power to take
advantage of favorable market conditions on a timely basis to achieve a
desirable debt restructuring; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition to
the words and terms defined in the
Amended and Restated Indenture as
previously amended and supplemented, which shall have the same meaning herein as therein unless otherwise defined herein or unless the context or use otherwise indicates, the
following words and terms as used in
this Ordinance, the Indenture and the

571

9
Series 2014 Refunding Bonds (each as
hereinafter defined) shall have the
following meanings unless the context or use otherwise indicates.
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural number,
and vice versa, and the terms “hereof,” “herein,” “hereby,” “hereto,” and
“hereunder” and similar terms refer to
this Series 2014 Refunding Bond Legislation and the Indenture, unless the
context otherwise indicates. The use
of 2014 in the definition of the Bonds,
Bond Legislation, Certificate of
Award and other defined terms shall
not be construed to require the
issuance of the Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds of any series in calendar year
2014. The Director of Finance shall
replace 2014 with the calendar year in
which the bonds are actually issued
and may make further designations
in nomenclature as may be appropriate.
“Amended and Restated Indenture”
means the Amended and Restated
Trust Indenture (Sixth Supplemental
Indenture), dated as of August 17,
2006, between the City and the
Trustee, supplementing, amending,
restating and superseding the Original Indenture as previously amended
and supplemented, as the same has
been and may further be duly supplemented, amended or modified from
time to time in accordance with the
provisions thereof.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby bond purchase agreement or other credit enhancement,
support or liquidity device used to
enhance the security or liquidity of
any Series 2014 Refunding Bonds or
any Hedge Agreements in accordance
with the Indenture.
“Financial Advisor” means any
financial advisory firm or firms
retained by the Director of Finance of
the City, from time to time, in connection with the Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds or any Hedge Agreement.
“Hedge Agreement” has the meaning given in Section 4 of this Series
2014 Refunding Bond Legislation.
“Indenture” means the Amended
and Restated Indenture as amended
and supplemented by the Seventh
Supplemental Indenture, the Eighth
Supplemental Indenture, the Ninth
Supplemental Indenture, the Tenth
Supplemental
Indenture,
the
Eleventh Supplemental Indenture
and the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, as the same may be further supplemented, amended or modified from
time to time in accordance with the
provisions thereof.
“Outstanding Bonds” as used in this
Ordinance, means Additional Bonds
issued and outstanding, from time to
time, under the Indenture. On the date
of introduction of this Ordinance, the
Outstanding Bonds (and the respective principal amounts then currently
outstanding including the original
principal amount of any outstanding
Capital Appreciation Bonds) consisted of the following series of Public
Power System Revenue Bonds: Series
2006A ($107,560,000), Series 2008A
($21,105,000),
Series
2008B
($70,757,880.25),
Series
2010
($23,470,000),
and
Series
2012
($9,510,000).
“Refunded Bonds” means those Outstanding Bonds designated in the
Series 2014 Refunding Certificate of
Award to be refunded from proceeds
of the Series 2014 Refunding Bonds.

10
“Series 2014 Refunding Bond Legislation” means this Ordinance, constituting part of the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture.
“Series 2014 Refunding Bond Purchase Agreement” means one or more
Bond Purchase Agreements between
the City and the Original Purchaser
of the Series 2014 Refunding Bonds,
authorized in Section 6 hereof.
“Series 2014 Refunding Certificate
of Award” means the one or more certificates authorized pursuant to Section 6 hereof.
“Series 2014 Escrow Agent” means
the Trustee, acting as escrow agent
under the Series 2014 Escrow Agreement with respect to the Refunded
Bonds.
“Series 2014 Escrow Agreement”
means the escrow agreement (which
may consist of multiple escrow agreements with appropriate distinguishing definitions if the Series 2014
Refunding Bonds are issued in more
than one series) between the City and
the Series 2014 Escrow Agent authorized pursuant to Section 7 hereof.
“Series 2014 Escrow Fund” means
the escrow fund established in the
Series 2014 Escrow Agreement.
“Series 2014 Refunding Bonds”
means the City’s Public Power System Refunding Revenue Bonds Series
2014 authorized pursuant to Section 3
hereof.
“Taxable Bonds” means any Series
2014 Refunding Bonds the interest on
which is included in gross income for
federal income tax purposes.
“Tax-Exempt Bonds” means Series
2014 Refunding Bonds bearing interest excluded from gross income for
federal income tax purposes.
“Twelfth Supplemental Indenture”
means the Twelfth Supplemental
Indenture (which may consist of more
than one Supplemental Indenture
with appropriate distinguishing designations if the Series 2014 Bonds are
issued in more than one series), provided for in Section 8 hereof between
the City and the Trustee, including
this Series 2014 Refunding Bond Legislation as part thereof, as the same
may be duly supplemented, amended
or modified from time to time in accordance with the provisions hereof.
Section 2. Authority. This Series
2014 Refunding Bond Legislation is
adopted pursuant to Sections 3, 4 and
12 of Article XVIII of the Constitution
of the State, and the City’s Charter.
Section 3. Authorization of Series
2014 Refunding Bonds. This Council
finds and determines it is necessary
and proper and in the best interest of
the City to authorize the issuance of
the Series 2014 Refunding Bonds for
the purpose of refunding one or more
series of the Outstanding Bonds, or
designated maturities thereof, for the
purpose of restructuring the debt service on Outstanding Bonds in a manner that the Director of Finance determines, based on the written advice of
a Financial Advisor, to serve the
City’s best interests. The Series 2014
Refunding Bonds may be issued in
one or more separate series so long as
the one or more series issued in the
aggregate meet the requirements of
the preceding sentence. The principal
amount of each series of Series 2014
Refunding Bonds is to be the amount
set forth in the Series 2014 Refunding
Certificate of Award authorized in
Section 6 and shall be the amount
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, to be necessary (i) to refund the Refunded

The City Record
Bonds, (ii) to fund any deposit to the
Bond Service Reserve Fund or the
Renewal and Replacement Fund
required under the Indenture, (iv) to
pay costs of any Credit Support
Instruments, (v) to pay identified
amounts owed under any Hedge
Agreements, and (vi) to pay costs of
issuing the Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds and refunding the Refunded
Bonds. The proceeds from the sale of
each series of Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds shall be allocated, deposited
and applied as provided in Section 7 of
this Ordinance.
The Series 2014 Refunding Bonds
may be issued in one or more separate
series, each bearing a distinctive designation, provided that the Series 2014
Refunding Bonds of each series satisfy the requirements of this Series 2014
Refunding Bond Legislation and the
Indenture. Separate series of Series
2014 Refunding Bonds may be issued
at the same or different times. The
Series 2014 Refunding Bonds of each
series shall be designated as provided
in the applicable Certificate of Award
(including replacing references to
2014 to the calendar year in which the
obligations are issued). A separate
Certificate of Award and a separate
Supplemental Indenture may be delivered for each series. Costs of issuance
of the Series 2014 Refunding Bonds
and any required deposit to the Bond
Service Reserve Fund attributable to
the Series 2014 Refunding Bonds
shall, in each case, be included in the
costs funded from the proceeds of the
Series 2014 Refunding Bonds. The
Series 2014 Refunding Bonds shall
constitute Bonds for all purposes of
the Indenture.
This Council finds and determines
that the issuance of the Series 2014
Refunding Bonds to restructure Outstanding Bonds serves a proper, public, municipal purpose by reducing
the cost at which Cleveland Public
Power can provide electric power.
Section 4. Authorization of Hedging
Arrangements. This Council finds
that by engaging in interest rate
hedging arrangements from time to
time, the City may reduce its cost of
borrowing by optimizing the relative
amounts of fixed and variable rate
obligations and minimizing the risk
of variations in its debt service costs.
Certain types of hedging arrangements (referred to in this Series 2014
Bond
Legislation
as
Refunding
“swaptions”) may enable the City to
obtain savings prior to the issuance of
Series 2014 Refunding Bonds by providing for an upfront payment to the
City by a financial institution or other
organization that is the counterparty
to the hedge arrangement in consideration of the City’s giving the counterparty the option to make effective at
a future date an interest rate
exchange transaction with the City.
To permit the City to have the flexibility to undertake interest rate swap,
swaption, rate cap, rate collar and
other hedging transactions from time
to time, and to establish the procedures for approving those transactions, this Council authorizes the
signing and delivery of one or more
agreements (each, a “Hedge Agreement”) and any related agreements
necessary for the consummation of
the transactions contemplated by
each Hedge Agreement. The authorizations in this Section are supplemental to and not in derogation of any
authority provided by any other ordinance of this Council concerning

572

April 30, 2014
hedging arrangements, and are all
subject to the requirements and
restrictions of the Indenture.
Upon the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that it is to the financial advantage of
the City and in the City’s best interests that a hedging arrangement be
undertaken by the City with respect
to any Bonds issued or to be issued
under the Indenture, the Director of
Finance may authorize one or more
interest rate hedge transactions in
accordance
with
the
applicable
Hedge Agreement; provided that (a)
the counterparty shall be rated at the
time of signing the Hedge Agreement
not lower than A+ or A1 by at least
one rating agency or its obligations
under the Hedge Agreement shall be
guaranteed or insured by an entity
rated at the time of signing the Hedge
Agreement not lower than A+ or A1
by at least one rating agency, and (b)
the term of each hedge transaction
shall not exceed the final maturity of
the Bonds to which the hedge relates
or (in the case of an option) will
relate. The requirements of this paragraph are in addition to, and not in
place or in derogation of, any other
applicable requirements of the Indenture.
The Director of Finance shall negotiate the terms of each Hedge Agreement with a counterparty satisfying
the credit criteria in this Series 2014
Refunding Bond Legislation and the
Indenture. The City shall receive a
written opinion of a Financial Advisor that the upfront payment or the
periodic payments, as the case may
be, to be made by the counterparty to
the City, or by the City to the counterparty, shall be fair value for the
Hedge Agreement, given the credit of
the counterparty and the terms and
conditions of the Hedge Agreement.
The Director of Finance shall determine the terms and conditions of the
Hedge Agreement, including without
limitation, the time or times and procedures for the exercise by the counterparty or the City, as the case may
be, of its option under the Hedge
Agreement, whether the obligations
of the City under the Hedge Agreement shall be secured by a Credit Support Instrument, and the rates to be
paid by the counterparty to the City
and by the City to the counterparty
under the Hedge Agreement in the
event of the exercise of the option.
The approval of each interest rate
hedge transaction by the Director of
Finance shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing and delivery of
the applicable Hedge Agreement by
the Director of Finance.
The City’s obligations under any
Hedge Agreement shall be payable
from the Net Revenues and the
Pledged Funds as permitted by the
Indenture, and may be payable also
from other funds permitted by law to
be used for the purpose, as identified
by the Director of Finance in the
Hedge Agreement. Those payments
may be secured by a pledge of the Net
Revenues and the Pledged Funds to
the extent permitted by the Indenture, all as determined by the Director
of Finance and set forth in the Hedge
Agreement. The obligation of the City
to make payments under any Hedge
Agreement does not and shall not represent or constitute a general obligation, debt, bonded indebtedness or a
pledge of the faith and credit of the
City or the State of Ohio. Nothing

April 30, 2014
gives any party to any Hedge Agreement the right to have excises, ad valorem or other taxes levied by the City
or the State of Ohio for the payment of
any amounts due under any Hedge
Agreement.
Section 5. Terms of Series 2014
Refunding Bonds. The Series 2014
Refunding Bonds shall contain the
terms provided in or determined pursuant to, the Indenture, this Series
2014 Refunding Bond Legislation, the
Series 2014 Refunding Certificate of
Award and the Twelfth Supplemental
Indenture. Each series of Series 2014
Refunding Bonds may be secured by a
separate Supplemental Indenture, or
a single Supplemental Indenture may
secure more than one series of Series
2014 Refunding Bonds, and the authorization in this Series 2014 Refunding
Bond Legislation for the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture shall encompass
the authorization for those one or
more
Supplemental
Indentures,
regardless of their designation.
(a) General. In the event that the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
determines that the City’s best interests will be served by causing a series
of Series 2014 Refunding Bonds to be
Variable Rate Bonds, then the Director of Finance is authorized to so
specify in the Series 2014 Refunding
Certificate of Award. If the Director
of Finance so determines, then the
method and procedure by which the
variable rate of interest to be borne
by the Series 2014 Refunding Bonds of
that series shall be determined as provided in the Twelfth Supplemental
Indenture, whether by reference to a
market index, by a remarketing
agent or otherwise, provided that no
series of variable rate Series 2014
Refunding Bonds shall bear interest
at a rate in excess of twenty-five percent (25%) per year (including any
Series 2014 Refunding Bonds held by
a provider of a Credit Support Instrument). The Director of Finance may
determine that the terms of a variable
rate series of Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds may or may not permit the
holders to tender their variable rate
Series 2014 Refunding Bonds for purchase by the City. If the Director of
Finance designates any series of
Series 2014 Refunding Bonds as Variable Rate Bonds, and if the Holders of
that series of Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds are to be entitled to tender
those Series 2014 Refunding Bonds for
purchase, then the Director of
Finance shall also designate for those
variable rate Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds (and may designate others,
from time to time, in substitution
therefor) the tender agent or agents
and the remarketing agent or agents,
which designations shall be based on
the determination of the Director of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, that the parties so designated possess the requisite resources and experience to provide the services required of them and
that the terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide
such services are fair and commercially reasonable. The Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements in connection with the
delivery of the Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds, and from time to time thereafter so long as the Series 2014
Refunding Bonds are outstanding,
with providers of Credit Support
Instruments, tender agents (which
may be the Trustee), remarketing

The City Record
agents (which may be any of the Original Purchasers) and others as may
be determined by the Director of
Finance to be necessary or appropriate to provide for the method of determining the variable interest rates,
permitting holders the right of tender
and providing for payment of the purchase price of, or debt service on, the
variable rate Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, in connection with the original issuance of any
series of Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds, and regardless of whether that
series of Series 2014 Refunding Bonds
bears interest at variable or fixed
rates, is authorized to contract for a
Credit Support Instrument, and to pay
the costs of it from proceeds of the
Series 2014 Refunding Bonds, if the
Director determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that the Credit Support Instrument
will result in a savings in the cost of
the financing to the City.
In the event that the Director of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, determines
that the City’s best interests will be
served by causing a series of Series
2014 Refunding Bonds to be Capital
Appreciation Bonds, then the Director
of Finance is authorized to so specify
in the Series 2014 Refunding Certificate of Award. If the Director of
Finance so determines, then the
authorizations and limitations in this
Section 5 and Section 6 shall be interpreted and applied in a manner that
the Director of Finance determines to
be consistent with the character of
Capital Appreciation Bonds.
(b) Form; Exchange and Transfer.
All Series 2014 Refunding Bonds shall
be issued in fully registered form.
The Series 2014 Refunding Bonds initially shall be delivered only in
book-entry form, shall be registered
in the name of the Depository or its
nominee, as registered owner, and
immobilized in the custody of the
Depository, and shall not be transferable or exchangeable (except for
transfer to another Depository or its
nominee) without further action by
the City pursuant to the provisions of
the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture.
No Series 2014 Refunding Bonds shall
be exchanged for or transferable into
a coupon Revenue Bond or Bonds
except to the extent that the Indenture permits such exchanges or transfers.
If any Depository determines not to
continue to act as a Depository for the
Series 2014 Refunding Bonds of any
series for use in a book entry system,
the Director of Finance and the
Trustee may attempt to establish a
securities depository/book entry relationship with another qualified
Depository. If the Director of Finance
and the Trustee do not or are unable
to do so, the Director of Finance and
the Trustee, after making provision
for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository and any
other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit withdrawal of the
Series 2014 Refunding Bonds of any
series from the Depository, and
authenticate and deliver registered
Bond certificates to the assigns of the
Depository or its nominee, all at the
cost and expense (including any costs
of printing), if the event is not the
result of action or inaction of the City,
of those persons requesting such
issuance.

573

11
The Director of Finance is authorized to enter into any agreements
determined by the Director to be necessary in connection with the book
entry system for the Series 2014
Refunding Bonds, after determining
that those agreements will not endanger the funds or securities of the City
under the Indenture (as evidenced by
the Director’s signing of those agreements).
(c) Dates; Denominations. The
Series 2014 Refunding Bonds of each
series shall be dated as of the date or
dates provided in the Series 2014
Refunding Certificate of Award for
that series. The Series 2014 Refunding Bonds of each series shall be
issued in the denominations permitted in the Twelfth Supplemental
Indenture.
(d) Interest and Place of Payment.
The Series 2014 Refunding Bonds of
each series shall bear interest at their
respective interest rates specified in
the Series 2014 Refunding Certificate
of Award (or, in the case of variable
rate Series 2014 Refunding Bonds,
determined pursuant to the Twelfth
Supplemental Indenture) for that
series. The Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds of each series shall bear interest from the most recent date to which
interest has been paid or duly provided for or, if no interest has been paid
or duly provided for, from their date.
The principal and any redemption
premium and the interest payable on
each series of Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds shall be payable at the times,
to the persons and in the manner set
forth in, or referenced by, the Supplemental Indenture, including, without
limitation, provisions thereof permitting special arrangements for payments to the Depository.
(e) Maturities. The Series 2014
Refunding Bonds of each series shall
mature on the Principal Retirement
Dates and in accordance with the
Principal Retirement Schedule specified in the Series 2014 Refunding Certificate of Award, consistent with this
Series 2014 Refunding Bond Legislation and the Indenture and subject to
any provisions for their optional or
mandatory redemption specified in
the Series 2014 Refunding Certificate
of Award pursuant to this Series 2014
Refunding Bond Legislation.
(f)
Optional
and
Mandatory
Redemption. The Series 2014 Refunding Bonds of each series may be subject to redemption prior to maturity at
the option of the City, if and to the
extent so provided in the Series 2014
Refunding Certificate of Award for
that series. Any Series 2014 Refunding Bonds so determined to be subject
to optional redemption and maturing
by their stated terms after the earliest
optional redemption date shall be subject to redemption at the option of the
City on or after the earliest optional
redemption date in whole or in part on
any date at the redemption prices provided in the Series 2014 Refunding
Certificate of Award and in accordance with the Indenture. The Series
2014 Refunding Bonds designated in
the Series 2014 Certificate of Award
as Term Bonds subject to mandatory
sinking fund redemption shall be
redeemed prior to maturity on each
Mandatory Redemption Date designated in the Series 2014 Refunding
Certificate of Award in the aggregate
amount of the Mandatory Sinking
Fund Installment to be paid on such
Mandatory Redemption Date, all as
provided in the Series 2014 Refunding

12
Certificate of Award and in accordance with the Indenture.
(g) Signing. The Series 2014
Refunding Bonds shall be signed by
the Mayor and the Director of
Finance, and approved as to form by
the Director of Law. Any or all of the
signatures of those officials may be
facsimiles. The Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds shall bear the corporate seal of
the City or a facsimile thereof.
(h) Numbering. The Series 2014
Refunding Bonds shall be numbered
as determined by the Director of
Finance.
Section 6. Award and Sale of Series
2014 Refunding Bonds. The Director
of Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver a Series 2014 Refunding Certificate of Award for the Series 2014
Refunding Bonds. In the event the
Series 2014 Refunding Bonds are
issued in more than one series sold at
different times, a separate Series 2014
Refunding Certificate of Award shall
be signed and delivered for each separately delivered series. Each series
of Series 2014 Refunding Bonds shall
bear such designation as the Director
of Finance determines to be appropriate (including, without limitation,
changing 2014 to the year in which
the series is issued). The sale of the
Series 2014 Refunding Bonds shall be
awarded to the firm or firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”) identified in the Certificate of Award, following consultation with the Director
of Public Utilities and the Director of
Finance. Each Series 2014 Refunding
Certificate of Award shall determine
the following, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, consistent with this Series 2014 Refunding
Bond Legislation and the Indenture:
(a) the aggregate principal amount
of Series 2014 Refunding Bonds
issued;
(b) the Purchase Price to be paid to
the City by the Original Purchaser,
which amount shall be not less than:
(i) 97% of the amount determined by
adding to the aggregate principal
amount of the Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds any aggregate original issue
premium and subtracting from that
amount any aggregate original issue
discount, plus (ii) any accrued interest on the Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds from their date to the date of
their delivery to the Original Purchaser;
(c) whether any Series 2014 Refunding Bonds are to be subject to optional redemption prior to maturity, and,
if so, the earliest optional redemption
date for those Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds that are subject to prior
redemption, which shall be not later
than ten years from the first interest
payment date of the applicable series,
and the applicable Optional Redemption Price, which shall be not greater
than 102% of the principal amount
redeemed;
(d) the Principal Retirement Dates,
the Term Maturity Dates (if any), and
the Mandatory Redemption Dates (if
any) on which principal of the Series
2014 Refunding Bonds is to be paid,
which shall be not later than thirtyone (31) years from their respective
dates of issuance;
(e) whether the Series 2014 Refunding Bonds are Tax-Exempt Bonds or
Taxable Bonds;
(f) the specified interest rates to be
borne by Series 2014 Refunding Bonds
bearing interest at a fixed rate, the
weighted average of which shall not
exceed seven percent (7%) as to

The City Record
Series 2014 Refunding Bonds of any
series that are Tax-Exempt Bonds, or
nine percent (9%) as to Series 2014
Refunding Bonds of any series that
are Taxable Bonds, or the method by
which the interest rate is to be determined for Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds bearing interest at variable
rates, consistent with Section 6
(Series 2014 Refunding Bonds of the
same series and same maturity may
bear interest at different interest
rates);
(g) the particular Outstanding
Bonds or portions thereof to be
Refunded Bonds;
(h) the title and series designation
for the Series 2014 Refunding Bonds;
(i) the amount, if any, of proceeds
of the sale of the Series 2014 Refunding Bonds to be deposited in the Bond
Service Reserve Fund in order to
cause the balance therein to equal the
Bond Reserve Requirement, if and to
the extent required by the Amended
and Restated Indenture, and any
determination as to whether there
shall be a special reserve fund for the
Series 2014 Refunding Bonds of any
series, separate from the common
Bond Service Reserve Fund, or a Credit Facility from a Qualified Credit
Facility Provider, or any other instrument in lieu of a funded reserve fund,
all as may be permitted by the Indenture;
(j) the Paying Agent; and
(k) whether any Series 2014
Refunding Bonds are to be secured by
or payable from a Credit Support
Instrument.
It is determined that the terms of
the Series 2014 Refunding Bonds as so
determined and specified in the Series
2014 Refunding Certificate of Award
within the limitations set forth in this
Series 2014 Refunding Bond Legislation and as permitted or required by
the Indenture will be in the best interest of the City and consistent with all
legal requirements.
The Director of Finance is authorized to enter into one or more Series
Refunding
Bond
Purchase
2014
Agreements with the Original Purchaser of Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds setting forth the conditions for
delivery of the Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds that are consistent with this
Series 2014 Refunding Bond Legislation, the Series 2014 Refunding Certificate of Award, and the Indenture
and that are determined by the Director of Finance, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, to be
customary for comparable revenue
bonds issued by governmental entities, including, without limitation,
representations as to the accuracy
and completeness of information contained in the Official Statement of the
City described in Section 11.
Section 7. Allocation of Purchase
Price for the Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds; Refunding of Refunded Bonds;
Escrow Agreements. The net proceeds from the sale of the Series 2014
Refunding Bonds (consisting of the
Purchase Price less bond insurance
premiums and other costs of Credit
Support
Instruments)
shall
be
received and receipted for by the
Director of Finance or by the Trustee
on the City’s behalf and shall be allocated, deposited and credited as follows, all pursuant to and in accordance with the Indenture: (a) to the
Interest Payment Account in the
Bond Service Fund, that portion, if
any, representing accrued interest on
the Series 2014 Refunding Bonds from

574

April 30, 2014
their date to the date of their delivery;
(b) to the Bond Service Reserve Fund,
the amount, if any, necessary to cause
the balance therein to equal the Bond
Reserve Requirement; (c) to the
Renewal and Replacement Fund, the
amount, if any, necessary to cause the
balance therein to equal the Renewal
and Replacement Fund Required Balance; (d) to the Series 2014 Escrow
Fund, the amount necessary to provide for the defeasance of the Refunded Bonds; (e) to the counterparty
under any Hedge Agreement, any
payment determined by the Director
of Finance to be paid from the proceeds of the Refunding Bonds, including any termination payment in the
event that the Director of Finance
determines it is in the best interests
of the City to terminate a Hedge
Agreement relating to Outstanding
Bonds; and (f)  to an account to be created under the Indenture for the payment of costs of issuance, such
amounts as are needed to pay costs of
issuing the Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds and refunding the Refunded
Bonds. The proceeds from the sale of
the Series 2014 Refunding Bonds are
appropriated and shall be used for the
purposes for which the Series 2014
Refunding Bonds are issued as provided in this Series 2014 Refunding
Bond Legislation.
The Director of Finance is authorized to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, a Series 2014
Escrow Agreement between the City
and the Trustee, as Series 2014
Escrow Agent, providing for, among
other matters: the investment and
holding in escrow of the proceeds of
the Series 2014 Refunding Bonds to be
applied to the refunding of the
Refunded Bonds; the application of
the moneys derived from those investments to the payment of the Bond Service Charges on those Refunded
Bonds; and the irrevocable call for
redemption of the Refunded Bonds to
be called for redemption prior to
maturity. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant
to the Series 2014 Escrow Agreement
from proceeds of the Series 2014
Refunding Bonds to the extent available and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose. Provision shall be made in the Series 2014
Escrow Agreement to give the
Trustee any written notice of redemption required under Article III of the
Original Indenture. The Director of
Finance, the Director of Public Utilities and other appropriate City officials shall sign all documents and
take all other actions necessary or
appropriate on the part of the City to
effect such refunding in accordance
with the Indenture and to cause the
Refunded Bonds to be deemed paid
and discharged, including without
limitation, the retention of an independent firm of accountants to verify
the mathematical accuracy of the calculations relating to the escrow.
Section 8. Twelfth Supplemental
Indenture. In order to secure the payment of Bond Service Charges as and
when due and payable, the Director of
Finance and the Director of Public
Utilities are hereby authorized, in the
name and on behalf of the City, to
make, execute, acknowledge and
deliver to the Trustee, a Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, approved as to
form and correctness by the Director

April 30, 2014
of Law, not inconsistent with this
Series 2014 Refunding Bond Legislation, the Series 2014 Refunding Certificate of Award and the Indenture
and not substantially adverse to the
City as may be approved by the officers executing the same on behalf of
the City. The determination by such
officers that the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture is not substantially
adverse to the City shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution of
the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture
by such officers. This Series 2014
Refunding Bond Legislation shall
constitute a part of the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture as therein provided and for all purposes thereof,
including, without limitation, the
application to this Series 2014 Refunding Bond Legislation of the provisions of the Twelfth Supplemental
Indenture relating to amendment,
modification, supplementation and
severability.
Section 9.    Tax Covenants. With
respect to Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds that are to be issued and sold
as Tax-Exempt Bonds, the City
covenants that it will use, and will
restrict the use and investment of, the
proceeds of the Tax-Exempt Bonds in
such manner and to such extent as
may be necessary so that (a) the
interest on the Tax-Exempt Bonds
will be excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
(b) in the case of any Tax-Exempt
Bonds qualifying as bonds, the interest on which is not treated as an item
of tax preference under Section 57 of
the Code (“Non-AMT Bonds”), such
Tax-Exempt Bonds will be treated as
Non-AMT Bonds.
The City further covenants that (a)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Tax-Exempt Bonds
to be and to remain excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes, (b) it will not take or authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the
Tax-Exempt Bonds to the governmental purposes of the borrowing, (ii)
restrict the yield on investment property, (iii) make timely and adequate
payments to the federal government,
(iv) maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of those
proceeds and, as applicable, of property financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of that
interest under the Code.
The Director of Finance, or any
other officer of the City having
responsibility for issuance of the TaxExempt Bonds, is hereby authorized
(a) to make or effect any election,
selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or waiver on behalf of
the City with respect to the TaxExempt Bonds as the City is permitted or required to make or give under
the federal income tax laws, including, without limitation thereto, any of
the elections provided for in Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available
under Section 148 of the Code, for the
purpose of assuring, enhancing or
protecting the favorable tax treatment or status of the Tax-Exempt
Bonds or interest thereon or assisting
compliance with requirements for
that purpose, reducing the burden or
expense of such compliance, reducing

The City Record
the rebate amount or payments of
penalties, or making payments of special amounts in lieu of making computations to determine, or paying,
excess earnings as rebate, or obviating those amounts or payments, as
determined by that officer, which
action shall be in writing and signed
by the officer, (b) to take any and all
other actions, make or obtain calculations, make payments, and make or
give reports, covenants and certifications of and on behalf of the City, as
may be appropriate to assure the
exclusion of interest from gross
income and the intended tax status of
the Tax-Exempt Bonds, and (c) to
give one or more appropriate certificates of the City, for inclusion in the
transcript of proceedings for the TaxExempt Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Tax-Exempt
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Tax-Exempt Bonds.
Each covenant made in this Section
9 with respect to the Tax-Exempt
Bonds is also made with respect to all
issues any portion of the debt service
on which is paid from proceeds of the
Tax-Exempt Bonds (and, if different,
the original issue and any refunding
issues in a series of refundings), to
the extent such compliance is necessary to assure exclusion of interest on
the Tax-Exempt Bonds from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, and the officers identified above
are authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this Section to take with
respect to the Tax-Exempt Bonds.
Section 10.  Additional Documents.
The Director of Finance, the Director
of Public Utilities and other City officials, as appropriate, are authorized
to sign and deliver such instruments,
certificates and documents as are necessary or appropriate to consummate
the transactions authorized by this
Series 2014 Refunding Bond Legislation, the Series 2014 Refunding Bond
Purchase Agreement, the Twelfth
Supplemental Indenture, the Indenture, the Series 2014 Escrow Agreement and any Hedge Agreements.
The Director of Finance, the Director of Public Utilities, the Director of
Law and other City officials, as appropriate, are authorized to make the
necessary arrangements on behalf of
the City to establish the date, location, procedure and conditions for the
delivery of each series of Series 2014
Refunding Bonds to the Original Purchaser and to take all actions necessary to effect due signing, authentication and delivery of each series of
Series 2014 Refunding Bonds under
the terms of this Series 2014 Refunding Bond Legislation, the Twelfth
Supplemental Indenture, the Series
2014
Refunding
Bond
Purchase
Agreement and the Indenture. The
Clerk of Council or other appropriate
official of the City shall furnish the
Original Purchaser a true transcript
of proceedings certified by the Clerk
or other official, of all proceedings
had with reference to the issuance of
the Series 2014 Refunding Bonds
along with such information for the
records as is necessary to determine
the regularity and validity of the
issuance of the Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds.

575

13
Section 11. Official Statements; Continuing Disclosure. The Director of
Finance, the Director of Public Utilities and other City officials as
deemed appropriate, are each authorized, on behalf of the City and in
their official capacities, to (i) prepare
or cause to be prepared, and make or
authorize modifications, completions
or changes of or supplements to, disclosure documents in the form of a
preliminary official statement relating to the issuance of the Series 2014
Refunding Bonds of one or more
series, and (ii) determine, and certify
or otherwise represent, when each
preliminary official statement as so
prepared is a “deemed final” official
statement (except for permitted omissions) by the City as of its date for
purposes of Securities and Exchange
Commission
(“SEC”)
Rule
15c212(b)(1). The distribution and use of
one or more preliminary official statements are hereby authorized and
approved.
Those officers and each of them are
also authorized, on behalf of the City
and in their official capacities, to
complete each preliminary official
statement with such modifications,
changes and supplements as those
officers shall approve or authorize for
the purpose of preparing and determining, and to certify or otherwise
represent, that the official statement
as so revised is a final official statement for purposes of SEC Rule 15c212(b) (3) and (4). Those officers each
are further authorized to use and distribute, or authorize the use and distribution of, one or more final official
statements and supplements thereto
in connection with the original
issuance of the Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds as may, in their judgment, be
necessary or appropriate. Those officers each are further authorized to
sign and deliver, on behalf of the City
and in their official capacities, each
final official statement and such certificates in connection with the accuracy of each preliminary official
statement and each final official
statement and any amendments
thereto as may, in their judgment,
also be necessary or appropriate. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
contract for services for the production and distribution of preliminary
and final official statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Series 2014 Refunding Bonds, the
City agrees, in accordance with, and
as an obligated person with respect to
the Series 2014 Refunding Bonds
under, SEC Rule 15c2-12, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information and operating data and
notices, in such manner, as may be
required for purposes of SEC Rule
15c2-12. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that purpose, and thereby to implement that
agreement, including provisions for
enforcement, amendment and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized to prepare, or cause to be
prepared, and to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City, a
continuing disclosure agreement or
certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of the
holders and beneficial owners of the
Series 2014 Refunding Bonds in accordance with SEC Rule 15c2-12. The performance of that agreement shall be

14
subject to the availability of funds
and their annual appropriation to
meet costs the City would be required
to incur to perform it.
Section 12.  Lien of Pledge. The Net
Revenues are subject to the lien of the
pledge under the Indenture without
any physical delivery of the Net Revenues or further act, and the lien of
such pledge is valid and binding
against all parties having claims of
any kind against the City (irrespective of whether such parties have
notice of such pledge and create a perfected security interest for all purposes of Chapter 1309, Ohio Revised
Code) without the necessity for separation of delivery of the Net Revenues
or for the filing or recording of the
Indenture or any other resolution or
instrument by which such pledge is
created or any certificate, statement
or other document with respect to
such pledge. The pledge of the Net
Revenues under the Indenture shall
be effective and the money therefrom
and thereof may be applied to the purposes for which pledged without
necessity for any further act of appropriation.
Section 13. Financial Advisors and
Consultants. The Director of Finance
may obtain the services of one or
more Financial Advisors, from time to
time, to assist the Director of Finance
in making any of the determinations
required by this Series 2014 Refunding Bond Legislation to be determined by the Director of Finance or to
negotiate any Hedge Agreements.
The Director of Finance may rely on
the written advice of any Financial
Advisor so retained. The Director of
Public Utilities and Director of
Finance may obtain the services of
one or more feasibility consultants,
from time to time, to provide reports
in connection with the issuance and
sale of any Series 2014 Refunding
Bonds or the delivery of any Hedge
Agreements concerning the utilization and operation of Cleveland Public Power, debt service coverage,
rates and charges or other matters.
Any Financial Advisor or consultant
employed under the authority of this
Series 2014 Refunding Bond Legislation shall be disinterested in the
transaction and be independent of the
underwriters or counterparties and
any other party interested in the
transaction.
Section 14. Appointment of Successor Trustee. The Director of Finance
is hereby authorized to appoint a successor Trustee on behalf of the City in
the event that the current Trustee
shall resign or be removed, or be dissolved or otherwise become incapable
of acting as Trustee under the Indenture, or in case it shall be taken under
the control of any public officer or
officers or of a receiver appointed by
a court, in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.08 of the Original
Indenture.
Section 15. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of the Council
concerning and relating to the adoption of this Series 2014 Refunding
Bond Legislation were adopted in an
open meeting of the Council, and that
all deliberations of the Council and of
any of its committees that resulted in
such formal action were in meetings
open to the public in compliance with
all applicable legal requirements.
Section 16. Separability. Each section of this Series 2014 Refunding

The City Record
Bond Legislation and each subdivision of any section is declared to be
independent, and the finding or holding of any section or subdivision of
any section to be invalid or void shall
not be deemed or held to affect the
validity of any other section or subdivision of this Series 2014 Refunding
Bond Legislation.
Section 17.    Recitals. It is determined and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be done
precedent to and in the issuing of the
Series 2014 Refunding Bonds in order
to make the same legal, valid and
binding special obligations issued by
the City of Cleveland, Ohio will have
happened, been done and performed
or will happen, be done and performed
in regular and due form as required
by law; and that no limitation of
indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, is applicable to
the issuance of the Series 2014
Refunding Bonds.
Section 18.    Effectiveness. This
Ordinance shall remain in effect for
the authorization of Series 2014
Refunding Bonds issued hereunder
for three years from its date of adoption.
Section 19.  Emergency. This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 565-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Zone.
An emergency ordinance Consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Rite Aid 2014 Cleveland
Marathon, on May 18, 2014.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the Rite Aid 2014 Cleveland Marathon
on May 18, 2014, 10K, Full Marathon,
Half Marathon Course Turns starting
at (all routes) W. Superior near W.
3rd; straight/east on W. Superior,
becomes Superior E, to E. 18th; right
on E. 18th to Carnegie; right on
Carnegie, becomes Lorain, to W. 20th;
(10K route continued), right on W.
25th to Franklin; left on Franklin to
W. 45th; right on W. 45th to Detroit;
left on Detroit to W. 49th; right on W.
49th to Cleveland Memorial Shoreway
entrance/exit ramp; right on exit
ramp to Cleveland Memorial Shoreway; straight on Cleveland Memorial
Shoreway, in west bound lanes,
against traffic, to shoreway entrance
ramp at W. Lakeside; bear left at top
of Cleveland Memorial Shoreway/W.
Lakeside Avenue entrance ramp to

576

April 30, 2014
W. Lakeside; FINISH: straight on W.
Lakeside to Onatario; (Full & Half
Marathon continued), left on W. 20th
Abbey; left on Abbey to W. 11th; right
on W. 11th to Starkweather; right on
Starkweather to Scranton; left on
Scranton to Barber; right on Barber to
W. 25th right on W. 25 to Lorain; left
on Lorain to W. 45th; right on W. 45th
to Franklin; left on Franklin to W.
74th; right on W. 74th to Detroit; left
on Detroit to Lake; right on Lake to
West Blvd; left on West Blvd to
Baltic; right on Baltic to W. 106th;
right on W. 106th to Clinton; right on
Clinton to W. 104th; left on W. 104th to
Lake; (Half Marathon route continued),
right
on
Lake
to
West
Blvd/Cleveland Memorial Shoreway
entrance ramp; bear left at entrance
ramp, stay on Cleveland Memorial
Shoreway to W. Lakeside exit ramp;
bear right at W. Lakeside exit ramp
to W. Lakeside; FINISH: straight on
W.
Lakeside
to
Ontario;
(Full
Marathon continued), left on Lake, in
east bound lanes, against traffic, to
Webb, Lakeside; right on Webb, in
south bound lane, against traffic, to
Lake; left on Lake, in east bound lane,
against traffic; bear right on Lake, in
east bound lane, against traffic, to
Clifton; right on Clifton, becomes
Lake, in east bound lanes, against
traffic, to turn around near Brandon,
Rocky River; 180 degree turn, Lake
near Brandon, in west bound lanes,
against traffic, to Avalon; left on
Avalon to Lake; left on Lake, becomes
Clifton, in west bound lanes, against
traffic, to Lake-Lakewood; left on
Lake, in west bound lanes, against
traffic, to Lake/Forect/W. Clifton
intersection; bear left on Lake, in
west bound lanes, against traffic, to
Webb; right on Webb, in north bound
lane, against traffic to Lake; left on
Lake, in west bound lanes, against
traffic, to W. 117th; left on W. 117th to
Edgewater; right on Edgewater to
West
Blvd/Cleveland
Memorial
Shoreway exit ramp; straight on
Cleveland Memorial Shoreway, in
west bound lanes, against traffic, to
shoreway entrance ramp at W. Lakeside; bear left at top of Cleveland
Memorial Shoreway/W. Lakeside
entrance ramp to W. Lakeside; FINISH: straight on W. Lakeside to
Ontario; provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order to
protect the participants in the event.
Said permit shall further provide that
the City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability
resulting from the issuance of the
same, to the extent and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

April 30, 2014
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 566-14.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit to 5510 St. Clair
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from
SMK1, Inc., DBA St. Clair BP, 5510 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
Permanent Number 8320705 to AS &
KS, Inc., DBA St. Clair BP, 5510 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
Permanent Number 0006566; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from
SMK1, Inc., DBA St. Clair BP, 5510 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
Permanent Number 8320705 to AS &
KS, Inc., DBA St. Clair BP, 5510 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
Permanent Number 0006566; and
requests the Superintendent of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.

The City Record
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 569-14.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
at 7017-19 Superior Avenue, 1st floor
only and repealing Resolution No.
1064-13, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit to C & S Entertainment, LLC, DBA Club Bottoms Up,
7017-19 Superior Avenue, 1st floor
only, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 1173725 by Resolution
No. 1064-13, adopted by the Council on
August 14, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit to C & S Entertainment, LLC, DBA Club Bottoms Up,
7017-19 Superior Avenue, 1st floor
only, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 1173725, be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1064-13, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 570-14.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 5222 Fleet Avenue, and repealing Resolution No 69-14, objecting to
said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to A & H Pantry,
Inc., 5222 Fleet Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44105, Permanent No. 0003595 by

577

15
Resolution No. 69-14 adopted by the
Council on January 13, 2014; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of location of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to A & H Pantry, Inc.,
5222 Fleet Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permanent No. 0003595, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 69-14, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 571-14.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 6506 Fleet Avenue, and repealing Resolution No 174-14, objecting to
said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to Mr. Z Beverage,
Inc., 6506 Fleet Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44105, Permanent No. 6208550 by
Resolution No. 174-14 adopted by the
Council on February 3, 2014; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of location of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to Mr. Z Beverage, Inc.,
6506 Fleet Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permanent No. 6208550, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 174-14, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.

The City Record

16
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 299-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into an agreement with Cuyahoga County to permit the County’s
Sheriff’s Department to provide the
City with all booking, housing, and
other related services for City Prisoners for a per diem rate per prisoner.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, at the end, strike
the period after “Prisoners” and
insert “any such suggested cost
increase, along with substantiation,
shall be immediately reported to
Council.”.
2. Insert new Section 4 to read as
follows:
“Section 4. That a copy of the final
agreement and the report dated
March 2014 complied by Guy Gadomski entitled “Cleveland Jails” shall
be placed in File No. 299-14-A.”
3. Re-number existing Section 4 to
new “Section 5.”
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:55 p.m. to meet on Monday, May 12,
2014, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chamber.

April 30, 2014

Resolution No. 155-14.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of PAR Electrical Contractors, Inc. dba J. W. Didado Electric
for the public improvement of the
Ridge
Road
Ring
Bus
Project,
including
the
10%
contingency
allowance, all items, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department
of
Public
Utilities,
received on October 9, 2013, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 55608, passed June 9, 2008, upon a gross
price for the improvement in the
aggregate amount of $4,145,900.00, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director
of Public Utilities is authorized to
enter
into
a
contract
for
the
improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following sub-contractors for the
above-mentioned
public
improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Donato Electric, Inc.
(CSB/FBE)

$203,000.00
4.896%

Safeguard Associates, Inc.
(CSB/MBE)
$626,000.00
15.099%
Marous Brothers

$626,000.00
15.099%

Rockport Construction and
Materials (CSB/FBE)
$ 90,000.00
2.171%
Yeas: None.
Nays: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director White, Directors Bender,
Smith, Cox, Interim Director Baker,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich
and
Acting
Director
O’Leary.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

BOARD OF CONTROL

April 23, 2014

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL
CORRECTION

The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, April 23, 2014
at 10:44 a.m. with Director Langhenry presiding.
Present: Director Langhenry, Acting Director White, Director Bender,
Acting Director Saunders, Directors
Cox, McGrath, Acting Director Cosgrove,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim Director Baker.
Others:
Natoya
Walker
Minor,
Interim Director, Office of Equal
Opportunity.
Tiffany
White,
Commissioner,
Division of Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted.

April 16, 2014
The following reprint of Board of
Control Resolution No. 155-14 as
reported in the April 23, 2014 City
Record
(Volume
101,
No.
5237)
reflects the correct vote.

Resolution No. 172-14.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
199-13, passed by the Council of the

578

City of Cleveland on March 18, 2013,
Hylant Group is selected from a list
of firms determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Utilities as the firm to be
employed by contract to supplement
the regularly employed staff of the
Public Utilities Department to provide professional services necessary
to procure fire and extended coverage and real and personal property
insurance, including oil testing and
other risk management services, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power’s major facilities, including
1300 Lakeside Avenue, for a period
of one year, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into contract with
Hylant Group, based on its proposal
dated April 2014, which contract
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, shall provide for the furnishing of professional services necessary to provide fire and extended
real and personal property insurance including oil testing and other
risk
management
services
as
described in the proposal, consisting
of a premium cost of $519,549.00 plus
$40,553.00 in loss control services, for
a total fee of $560,102.00, and shall
contain such additional provisions
as the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultant is approved:
SUB-CONSULTANT

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Pinkney-Perry Insurance
Agency (MBE/CSB/LPE) $6,437.00
1.15%
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director White, Director Bender,
Acting Director Saunders, Directors
Cox, McGrath, Acting Director Cosgrove,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim Director Baker.
Resolution No. 173-14.
By Director Bender.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1036-07, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
August 8, 2007, and Resolution No.
531-11, adopted by this Board of Control on November 9, 2011, the City
through its Director of Public Utilities, entered into Contract No. CT2002-PS2012*010 with Rahim Inc. dba
RNR Consulting to provide professional consulting services necessary
to provide professional customer service systems support, including general IT support, billing system support, Cisco VoIP and call center support, business intelligence support
and development, IT infrastructure
support and Microsoft system support, for a period not exceeding two
years, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, in
the amount of $975,000.00; and
Whereas, under Board of Control
Resolution No. 615-13, adopted October 23, 2013, the Director of Public
Utilities was authorized to enter
into a modification to Contract No.
CT-2002-PS2012*010 to extend the

April 30, 2014
term of City Contract No. CT2002PS2012*010 for an additional year to
November 8, 2014 to enhance, integrate, and maintain the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities customer service IT systems
including, but not limited to: billing,
work management, and meter reading systems; call center application;
internet/intranet sites; payment processing system; and other related IT
systems that support customer services and operations; and
Whereas,
the
City
desires
to
increase the amount of Contract No.
CT2002-PS2012*010 by $626,750.00 to
continue the current professional
services to enhance, integrate, and
maintain the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities customer service IT systems including,
but not limited to: billing, work
management, and meter reading systems; call center application; internet/intranet sites; payment processing system; and other related IT
systems that support customer services and operations; and
Whereas, Rahim Inc. dba RNR
Consulting has proposed by its letter dated March 26, 2014 (“Proposal”) to perform the above-described
additional services; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the Director of Public Utilities
is authorized to enter into a modification to City Contract No. CT2002PS2012*010 with Rahim Inc. dba
RNR Consulting, on the basis of its
proposal dated March 26, 2014, for
performance of the above-mentioned
services, increasing the contract
amount
by
$626,750.00
to
$2,100,879.68. The modification shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall include such additional
provisions as the Director deems
necessary to benefit and protect the
public interest.
Be it further resolved that the participation of Recess Creative, LLC
(CSB) and TieBridge, Inc. as subconsultants to Rahim Inc. dba RNR
Consulting under City Contract No.
CT-2002-PS2012*010 is increased from
$50,000.00 (3.392%) to $112,750.00
(5.367%)
and
from
$400,000.00
(27.135%) to $900,000.00 (42.839%)
respectively.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director White, Director Bender,
Acting Director Saunders, Directors
Cox, McGrath, Acting Director Cosgrove,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim Director Baker.
Resolution No. 174-14.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Terrace Construction
Company,
Inc.
for
the
public
improvement of the Transmission
Water
Main
Renewal
Phase
I,
including a $38,088.94 contingency
allowance, all items, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, received on December 20,
2013, under the authority of Ordinance No. 444-10, passed June 7, 2010
as amended by Ordinance No. 105212, passed on October 8, 2012, upon
a unit basis for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of $418,978.34,
is affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director
of Public Utilities is authorized to

The City Record

17

enter
into
a
contract
for
the
improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following sub-contractors by
Terrace Construction Company, Inc.
for
the
above-mentioned
public
improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Rockport Construction &
Materials, Inc. (CSB/FBE)
$ 24,000.00
5.73%
The Vallejo Company
(CSB/MBE)

$101,700.00
24.27%

Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director White, Director Bender,
Acting Director Saunders, Directors
Cox, McGrath, Acting Director Cosgrove,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim Director Baker.
Resolution No. 175-14.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on January 24, 2014
for the public improvement of 1201
Lakeside Avenue Skylight Restoration and Partial Roof Replacement
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, under the
authority of Ordinance No. 262-12,
passed May 14, 2012, are rejected.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director White, Director Bender,
Acting Director Saunders, Directors
Cox, McGrath, Acting Director Cosgrove,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim Director Baker.
Resolution No. 176-14.
By Director Smith.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 183-09 and Ordinance
No. 496-12, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland on April 13,
2009 and May 14, 2012, respectively,
and Board of Control Resolution No.
98-10, adopted March 10, 2010, the
City through its Director of Port
Control entered into City Contract
No. PS2010*106 with Precision Analytical, Inc. to perform environmental analytical laboratory services
needed to comply with regulatory
permits and orders, and for miscellaneous
sampling,
environmental
compliance strategies, environmental modeling efforts and reporting;
and
Whereas, by letter dated April 2,
2014 Precision Analytical, Inc. has
informed the City that it has been
acquired by CWM Environmental,
Inc., requested the City’s consent to
acquisition of Precision Analytical,
Inc. by CWM Environmental, Inc.,
and has stated that the City’s active
contract will continue to be honored;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
at the request of Precision Analytical, Inc. in its April 2, 2014 letter,
this Board consents to the acquisition of Precision Analytical, Inc.,

579

consultant to the City under Contract No. PS2010*106, by CWM Environmental, Inc., effective March 7,
2014; provided, however, that CWM
Environmental, Inc. and Precision
Analytical, Inc. do all things necessary and appropriate to implement
the above-mentioned acquisition and
that CWM Environmental assumes
and performs all Precision’s obligations under the contract.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to execute all documents and
to do all things necessary and
appropriate to implement the consent authorized above, provided that
the terms of the acquisition do not
conflict with or modify the terms
and conditions of City Contract No.
PS2010*106.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director White, Director Bender,
Acting Director Saunders, Directors
Cox, McGrath, Acting Director Cosgrove,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim Director Baker.
Resolution No. 177-14.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns and operates certain real propas
the
erty
commonly
known
Chester Parking Lot under the
supervision and direction of the
Director of Public Works; and
Whereas, Siberian Tiger, LLC, dba
VIP Valet Parking, has proposed to
offer valet parking services to the
general public for the Dazzle the
District Event at Cleveland Playhouse Square using the Chester
Parking Lot; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under Section 183.04 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Public Works
is authorized to enter into a concession agreement with Siberian
Tiger, LLC, dba VIP Valet Parking,
to operate a valet parking service
for the Dazzle the District at Cleveland Playhouse on May 2, 2014,
using the Chester Parking Lot, for
a concession fee of $450.00 plus $5.00
per vehicle parked. The concession
agreement shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall contain
such additional provisions as the
Director of Law deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director White, Director Bender,
Acting Director Saunders, Directors
Cox, McGrath, Acting Director Cosgrove,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim Director Baker.
Resolution No. 178-14.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 119-32-001 located at 2265 East
86th Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,

18
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Evelyn Wilder has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcels is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Evelyn Wilder
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 119-32-001 located
at 2265 East 86th Street, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director White, Director Bender,
Acting Director Saunders, Directors
Cox, McGrath, Acting Director Cosgrove,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim Director Baker.
Resolution No. 179-14.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 112-24-080 located at 14309 Sylvia
Avenue; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Richard M. Easley has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 8 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;

The City Record
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of
Cleveland,
with
Richard
M.
Easley for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 112-24-080
located at 14309 Sylvia Avenue,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director White, Director Bender,
Acting Director Saunders, Directors
Cox, McGrath, Acting Director Cosgrove,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim Director Baker.
Resolution No. 180-14.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 016-16-052 located at 3452 West
59th Street: and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Lourdes M. Rosado has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcels is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Lourdes M. Rosado for the sale and development of
Permanent
Parcel
No.
016-16-052
located at 3452 West 59th Street,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.

580

April 30, 2014
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director White, Director Bender,
Acting Director Saunders, Directors
Cox, McGrath, Acting Director Cosgrove,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim Director Baker.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE
____________
ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2014
5/2/14 – 5/8/14

Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.

Exam
Type

52

EE/Perf Electric Bridge
Operator Leader Open

53

WR

Electrical
Worker

Open

54

WR

Junior Clerk

Open

55

WR

Storekeeper

Open

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The

The City Record

April 30, 2014
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Lease - from rental agency.

Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, MAY 2, 2014
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
MAY 8, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MAY 8, 2014

Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Sixty Percent of Applicant’s
grade will be determined based on
Education and Experience found in
Resume. Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.
Bank statements (Within last three
months).
School registration of children.
Car insurance documents.
Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).
Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).
The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.
Voter registration cards.
Birth certificates.
Notarized letters or affidavits.
Social Security card.
Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 52
ELECTRIC BRIDGE
LEADER (OPEN)

OPERATOR

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $10.00 - $19.16 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside

EXAMINATION INFORMATION

PERFORMANCE TEST: Forty Percent of the applicant’s grade will be
determined based on proficiency in
utilizing Microsoft Office Suites
(Word, Excel, Outlook).
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, operates and
maintains the mechanism of an electrically controlled swing or draw
bridge as assigned. Leads the operation of a shift of Bridge Operators and
Attendants on their work shift and
performs related duties as required.
Maintains a bridge log recording
bridge openings, vessel movements,
accidents, equipment malfunctions
and unusual occurrences. Records
vessel names, direction, and time of
passing in logbook. Completes bridge
accident report forms. Tests to ascertain that all bells, lights, and warning
signals are operational when starting
a shift. Checks locks on stairways at
the beginning of shift to ensure they
are locked and to prevent any person’s entry to unauthorized areas as
well as the operator’s cabin. Maintains constant audio and video watch
for signals from boats or barges.
Observes that all bells, lights, and
warning signals are operating and
that all highway traffic over bridge
has been stopped before opening
bridge. Notifies bridge mechanic of
any equipment malfunctions. Opens
bridge for passage of boats and closes
bridge following passage. Reports
any security issues. Operates a computer. Cleans and maintains operator
house and facilities. Keeps bridge
sidewalks swept clean/washed down.
Removes snow and ice from bridge
proper and bridge sidewalks using
powered equipment and/or by hand
when necessary. Removes litter from
the general area and keeps the bridge
roadway clear of road hazards.

581

19
Assists bridge maintenance personnel in performing more complex maintenance on mechanical and electrical
equipment. Acts as Flag Person in
emergency situations if necessary.
Calls for police and records license
numbers of vehicles involved in accidents. Drives personal vehicle to
other bridges to operate as necessary.
Receives reports of unusual incidents, hours worked, overtime, and
sick leave and passes on all such
reports to the Chief Bridge Operator
or other designated supervisor. Inventories equipment and supplies, and
performs related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Three years of full time
paid Electric Bridge Operator experience is required. Two years of full
time paid experience in the operation,
installation, maintenance or repair of
heavy industrial electro-mechanical
equipment (such as electric motors,
large cranes, or elevators, etc.) is
required. Must be able to climb ladders and stairs to a height of 100 feet
above water and must be able to work
various shifts and days. A valid State
of Ohio Driver’s License is required.
Must own or have access to a properly
insured vehicle. Must be able to lift
and carry at least 30 pounds. Must
possess computer skills and be familiar with various Microsoft programs
such as Word, Excel, and Outlook.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

The City Record

20
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 53
ELECTRICAL WORKER (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $45.13 - $56.41 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON
FRIDAY, MAY 2, 2014 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, MAY 8, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MAY 8, 2014
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
Applicants will be notified of the
date, time, and place of the exam via
U.S. Mail
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

ladder. (Substitution: One year of
direct electrical experience may substitute for each year of Apprentice
Program lacking.)
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 54
JUNIOR CLERK (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $11.97 - $14.14 per Hour.

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
FILING OF APPLICATION
Under supervision, does skilled work
in connection with the installation,
repair and maintenance of electrical
light and power transmission lines
and circuits, signal lines and circuits,
and electric generating and electrically operated equipment. Performs
related duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety polices and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Completion of a certified
four-year Electrical Apprentice Program or equivalent is required. Must
have a valid State of Ohio Driver’s
License. Must be able to lift and carry
a minimum of 30 pounds and climb a

Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON
FRIDAY, MAY 2, 2014 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, MAY 8, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MAY 8, 2014
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
Applicants will be notified of the
date, time, and place of the exam via
U.S. Mail
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT

582

April 30, 2014
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under immediate supervision, does
clerical work of a routine nature. Performs related duties as required. Follows all operations and safety polices
and safe work practices. Attends and
participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. One year of full time paid
experience in an office setting with a
working knowledge of Microsoft
Office is required. Must be able to lift
and carry at least 30 pounds.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 55
STOREKEEPER (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.

The City Record

April 30, 2014
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $16.66 - $20.76 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON
FRIDAY, MAY 2, 2014 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, MAY 8, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MAY 8, 2014
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
Applicants will be notified of the
date, time, and place of the exam via
U.S. Mail
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, has immediate
charge of a small storeroom or/of a
supply yard. Supervises the receiving
and issuance of materials and supplies. Performs related duties as
required. TYPICAL TASKS: Operates
and maintains a small storeroom or
supply yard with or without immediate assistance. Generates purchase
requests for authorization to obtain
materials. Performs or assists in the
work of receiving, unpacking, checking, storing, and issuing of tools, supplies, and materials. Supervises miscellaneous and related storeroom
activities. In a supply yard, supervises and assists in the receiving, storing, and disbursing of brick, sand,
gravel, slag, cement, crushed stone,
curbing, cinders, tools, and other supplies. Checks supplies and materials
for the purpose of maintaining adequate supply on hand. Maintains
records on computer. Tracks Purchase Order balances. Issues tallies
and debits for materials received and
returned. Requisitions supplies. Maintains records of supplies received and
issued. Checks and inspects supplies
received. Takes inventories and completes appropriate forms. Orders supplies. Compares physical quantities
on hand with perpetual inventory
records. Contacts Purchasing Division and vendors concerning specifications and deliveries. Distributes
labor and material charges. Participates in inventory, audit, and procurement related projects with the Division, Department, or Citywide as
assigned. Keeps storeroom, supply
yard, buildings, or grounds in orderly
condition. Prepares reports. Answers

telephones. Follows all operations
and safety polices and safe work
practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Three years of full time
paid storeroom or related experience
is required. Supervisory experience is
strongly preferred. Must possess
basic computer skills, especially
Microsoft Office Suites and must be
able to attain proficiency on various
inventory software packages. Must
be knowledgeable in the various
machines associated with the automated office (e.g.: Computer, fax,
copier,
postage
meter,
adding
machine, etc.). A valid state of Ohio
Driver’s License is required. Must be
able to lift and carry 75 pounds upon
occasion with the use of equipment or
the assistance of others.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
ROBERT BENNETT,
President
April 30, 2014

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MAY 12, 2014
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 14-056: 2169 West 31st
Street (Ward 3)
Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization, owner, and Jason Brooks,

583

21
prospective purchaser, appeal to
erect a 12' x 24' two-story frame,
lower open carport and an open
wooden deck addition to a single
family dwelling on a 35' x 63' parcel located in a B1 Two-Family District; subject to the restrictions in
Section 337.23(a) no parking space
shall be located less than 10 feet
from a wall or building with ground
floor windows designed to provide
light and ventilation and contrary to
Section 337.23 (a) proposing an
accessory use at 24 feet where the
rear half of the lot would be at 31
feet; and proposing a rear yard
depth of 14'-11" contrary to 20 feet
required by Section 357.08(b)1; and
with a distance of 3 feet proposed
where no building shall be less than
10 feet from a dwelling on an adjacent lot and interior side yards of 2
feet where 3 feet is required, and a
total width of side yards on the
same premises that equals 3'-6"
where not less than 10 feet is
required
pursuant
to
Sections
357.09(2)(A) and (B) in the Cleveland Codified Ordinances. (Filed 416-14)
Calendar No. 14-058: 10507 Superior
Avenue (Ward 9)
Ali Mohammed, owner, appeals to
expand his store to include a service
station on a corner parcel located in
a D2 Local Retail Business District
said expansion being contrary to
Section 343.01 of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances which states that a
Service Station is not permitted in a
Local Retail Business District but is
first permitted in a General Retail
Business
District
per
Section
343.11(b)(2)(1)(5); and contrary to
Section 347.08 (a) the trash area and
refuse container shall be located in
such a manner that they shall not
be visible from the public street or
from any lot or lots designated for
residential purpose; and subject to
Section 347.08 which states that
refuse doors shall have locking
latches and must be locked at all
times other than when refuse is
being loaded or collected; and subject to Section 341.02 (a) exterior
alterations of site in a designated
Design Review District requires the
review and approval of the City
Planning Commission. (Filed 4-2114)
REINSTATED
Calendar No. 14-041: 2438 West 10th
Street (Ward 3)
Peter G. Kochera, owner, appeals
to construct a 4 door, 2,668 square
foot garage with a second story and
balcony on an approximately 66' x
189' parcel in a B1 Two Family District and contrary to Section 337.23
(a)(7)(A) the floor area of a private
garage erected as an accessory
building shall not exceed 650 square
feet unless the lot area exceeds 4800
square feet in which event the floor
area may be increased in the ratio
of one (1) square foot for each
twelve square feet of additional lot
area, the maximum square footage
allowed on this particular lot is
1,035 square feet and 2,668 square
feet are proposed and contrary to

The City Record

22
Section 353.05 an accessory building
shall not exceed 15feet in height
and 21 feet are proposed. (Filed 319-14-No Testimony Taken)
POSTPONED FROM
MARCH 24, 2014
Calendar No. 14-020: 7202 Hague
Avenue (Ward 15)
Shpresa Deda, owner, appeals to
establish use as a motor vehicle service garage for minor repairs on a
triangular shaped corner parcel in a
C1 General Retail Business District
and contrary to Section 343.14 (a)
(2) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances no motor vehicle repair
activity may occur within 10 feet of
a Residence District and the property abuts a Two Family Residential District; and pursuant to Sections 343.14 (a) (1) a 6 foot high
solid wood fence or wall is required
where the use abuts the Two Family District and none is shown; and
subject to 352.09 a 10 foot wide transition strip is required where the
address abuts the Residence District
and no screening is proposed and
pursuant to Section 352.10 a 6 foot
wide minimum frontage strip is
required along West 73rd Street and
none is proposed. (Filed 2-27-2014 –
Testimony Taken)
POSTPONED FROM
APRIL 21, 2014

April 30, 2014

Calendar No. 14-51: 16801 Fischer
Road
Anne Agozzino, owner, appeals to
build an addition, a garage, a pool
and outdoor open space trellis with
fireplace on a 10' x 170' lot located
in an A1 One Family Residential
District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 14-50: 310-320 Prospect
Avenue
LR 310 Prospect Investor, LLC,
owner appealed the decision of the
Cleveland City Planning Commission rendered on March 21, 2014
regarding a request for a demolition
permit.
The following appeal was WITHDRAWN:
Calendar No. 14-48: 4209 East 131
Street
Winston House, owner, appeals to
erect a 960 square foot addition and
expand use to include a banquet/
assembly hall on a parcel located in
a B1 Local Retail Business District.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.

Violation Notice
Calendar No. 14-043: 3226 West 35
Street (Ward 14)
Leah Burchnell, owner, appeals
from a Notice of Violation issued on
March 13, 2014 by the Cleveland
Department of Building and Housing for unauthorized use of 3226
West 35th Street as a motor vehicles
repair and storage of wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, and or unlicensed motor vehicles in a Two
Family District which is contrary to
Sections 337.23 of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances. (Filed 3-20-14)

The following appeal was POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 14-017: 16917 Euclid
Avenue
John Lewis, owner Postponed to
May 19, 2014 at 9:30 a.m.
The following appeals were heard
by the Board on April 21, 2014 and
the decisions were adopted and
approved on April 28, 2014;
following
The
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

Calendar No. 14-46: 2390 East 30th
Street
CMHA, owner, appealed to construct 60 dwelling units, stores and
office on a corner parcel located in
C1 Multi-Family.

MONDAY, APRIL 28, 2014
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, April 28,
2014, the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 14-47: 1882 West 65th
Street
David Harper, owner, appealed to
install
telecommunications
equipment and antennas on the roof of a
structure located on a corner parcel
in a B1 Two Family Residential District.

Calendar No. 14-022: 5209 Detroit
Avenue
Westside Ministries, owner, and
The Centers for Families and Children, tenant, appealed to erect six
new wall signs on a two story brick
building located in a C2 Local Retail
Business District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

were

appeals

were

None.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:
None.

Calendar No. 14-049: 11125 Magnolia
Drive
Cleveland Music School Settlement, owner, appeals to install a 30'
x 40' temporary tent for various
events occurring between April 9,
2014 and October 9, 2014.

The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.
Secretary

584

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Re: Report of the Meeting of
April 23, 2014
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:
*    *    *
Docket A-30-14.
RE: Appeal of Daryl Williams &
Charles Scott, Owners of the Two
Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence Two & One/half Story Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 1643 Avalon Road from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR/ EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE,
dated August 21, 2013 of the Director of the Department of Build-ing
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant ninety (90) days in which
to complete abatement of all violations, interior and exterior; the property is REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-56-14.
RE: Appeal of Joseph Assily,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Three Story
Wood Frame/Siding/Masonry Veneer
Property, located on the premises
known as 2056 West 85th Street
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
FIRE DAMAGE, dated February 13,
2014 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain all required permits, ninety (90) days in which to abate all
exterior violations, and one hundred
eighty (180) days in which to complete abatement of all violations on
the property, noting that failure to
meet any of these dates will result
in remanding the property immediately; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-57-14.
RE: Appeal of James A. Wright
III, Owner of the One Dwelling Single-Family
Residence
One
&

The City Record

April 30, 2014
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
3333 Woodbridge Avenue from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated February 19, 2014 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain all required permits, ninety (90) days in which to abate all
exterior violations and one hundred
eighty (180) days in which to complete abatement of all violations on
the
property;
the
property
is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence One Story Garage – Detached
Wood Frame Property, located on
the premises known as 13104 Wainfleet Avenue from a CONDEMNATION ORDER — GARAGE, dated
February 10, 2014, of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
appeal and to REMAND the property to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action, noting
that the owner has transferred the
property and that the new owner
has obtained permits and is permitted to proceed without action from
the Board. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *

*    *    *
Docket A-58-14.
RE: Appeal of Robert Cangami,
Owner of the Residential Property,
located on the premises known as
4537 West 148th Street from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — JUNK
VEHICLES, dated February 3, 2014,
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-58-14 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for May
7, 2014.
*    *    *
Docket A-59-14.
RE: Appeal of Denis J. Bergeron
IV, Owner of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence Two &
One/half Story Frame Residential
Property, located on the premises
known as 6734 Baxter Avenue from
a
NOTICE
OF
VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated
January 31, 2014, of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleve-land and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Violation Notice was properly issued
and to DENY the request for additional
time;
the
property
is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action, noting that the property continues to deteriorate and
there has been no effort made to
abate the violations, and that the
owner nor the owner’s representative is present for the hearing.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

Dockets A-62-14.
RE: Appeal of Farid Nagib, Owner
of the S-1 Storage – Moderate Hazard (Combustibles) One & One/half
Story Masonry Property, located on
the premises known as 5000 Track
Road from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
UNAUTHORIZED/ILLEGAL USE, dated January 29, 2014 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
No action required by the Board
at this time.
*    *    *
Docket A-63-14.
RE: Appeal of Lei Wei, Owner of
the Two Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence Two & One/half Story
Wood Frame/Siding/Masonry Veneer
Property, located on the premises
known as 925 East 126th Street from
OF
VIOLATION
—
a
NOTICE
EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated
February 24, 2014, of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleve-land and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Violation Notice was properly issued
based upon photographic evidence
and testimony presented by the
inspector, that no work has been
done on the property, and that the
Appellant is not present at the hearing, the request for additional time
is
DENIED;
the
property
is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department to Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

23
Dockets A-40-14 to A-41-14.
University Place Dev. Co., LP –
1569 East 118th Street (Bldgs. A,B):
Dockets A-42-14 to A-46-14.
University Place Dev. Co., LP –
1569
East
118th
Street
(Bldgs.
A,B.C,D,E):
Dockets A-47-14 to A-51-14.
University Place Dev. Co., LP –
(Bldgs.
1569
East
118th
Street
A,B.C,D,E):
Dockets A-52-14 to A-54-14.
University Place Dev. Co., LP –
1569
East
118th
Street
(Bldgs.
A,B.C):
A motion is in order at this time
to grant a variance to allow the site
utilities installation as shown on
permit drawings P1-11 thru P5-11
dated July 25, 2013 with revisions as
shown on drawing PO-02 dated April
7, 2014 and Articles of Incorporation
dated April 1, 2014. These documents
describe water service to each property from a central meter with individual water meters and shut offs
as approved by the Cleveland Water
Department, sanitary sewers with
accessible cleanouts, natural gas
distribution as approved by the utility, and the articles of incorporation
including easements and maintenance requirements and responsibilities. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab.
Nays:
Messrs.
Bradley,
Maschke.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher for Approval and Adoption of the Resolutions as presented
by the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-293-13 — John H. Deleva
A-34-14 — Yvette Attaway
A-55-14 — GLSD Steel Warehouse
A-65-14 — DeWayne Cooper
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Saab.
*    *    *
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Maschke for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-18-14 — SunPace Property, LLC
A-28-14 — George Caraman
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Saab.

*    *    *

*    *    *

*    *    *

OTHER BOARD BUSINESS:

Docket A-61-14.
RE: Appeal of SRMOF II 2012-1
Trust, U.S. Bank Trust National
Association,
Owner
of
the
One

Dockets A-36-14 to A-39-14.
University Place Dev. Co., LP –
1569
East
118th
Street
(Bldgs.
A,B,C,D):

Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Maschke for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the

585

The City Record

24
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-31-14 — Khalil Abdur Rahman
A-32-14 — Roland Realty Co.
A-33-14 — Shaker Square Towers,
LLC
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Saab.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Maschke for Approval and Adoption
of the Minutes as presented by the
Secretary, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
April 9, 2014
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Saab.
*    *    *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE
On March 3, 2014, Cleveland City
Council passed Ordinance No. 280-14
authorizing the submission to the
electors of the City of Cleveland of
a proposal to amend the Charter of
the City of Cleveland by amending
existing Section 33 to allow for legislation to be presented in electronic, digital, written or printed form.
The language that will appear on
the ballot for the May 6, 2014 election is as follows:
ISSUE 11
PROPOSED CHARTER
AMENDMENT
CITY OF CLEVELAND
A majority affirmative
required for passage.

vote

is

Shall Section 33 of the Charter of
the City of Cleveland be amended to
provide that copies of ordinances
and resolutions shall be introduced
in the Council in electronic, digital,
written or printed form, and that
members of council shall receive an
electronic, digital, written or printed copy of an ordinance prior to the
final reading of that ordinance?
For
more
information,
go
to
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org.
_____
March 26, 2014, April 2, 2014, April
9, 2014, April 16, 2014, April 23, 2014,
and April 30, 2014

PUBLIC NOTICE
PROCLAMATION
NOTICE OF PRIMARY ELECTION
R.C. 3501.03
The Board of Elections of Cuyahoga
County,
Ohio
issues
this
Proclamation and Notice of Election.

A PRIMARY ELECTION
WILL BE HELD ON
TUESDAY, the 6th Day of May, 2014
at the usual places of holding elections in each and every precinct in
Cuyahoga County or at such places
as the Board may designate, to nominate party candidates and to select
members of controlling committees
of political parties:
DEMOCRATIC PRIMARY
Governor and Lieutenant Governor
ONE (1)
Attorney General ONE (1)
Auditor of State ONE (1)
Secretary of State ONE (1)
Treasurer of State ONE (1)
Representative to Congress ONE
(1) From the 9th, 11th, 14th, and
16th Congressional Districts
Justice of the Supreme Court ONE
(1) Full Term Commencing 1/1/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/2/2015
Judge of the Court of Appeals
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
2/9/2015
(Eighth District) ONE (1) Full
Term Commencing 2/10/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
2/11/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
2/12/2015
Member of State Central Committee, Man ONE (1) From the 21st,
23rd, 24th and 25th State Senate Districts
Member of State Central Committee Woman ONE (1) From the 21st,
23rd, 24th and 25th State Senate Districts
State Senator ONE (1) From the
21st, 23rd and 25th State Senate Districts
State
Representative
ONE
(1)
From the 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th,
12th, 13th, 14th, 15th and 16th
Judge of the Court of Common
Pleas ONE (1) Full Term Commencing 1/1/2015
(General Division) ONE (1) Full
Term Commencing 1/2/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/3/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/4/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/5/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/6/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/7/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/10/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
2/9/2015
ONE (1) Unexpired Term Ending
1/11/2017
Judge of the Court of Common
Pleas ONE (1) Full Term Commencing 1/8/2015
(Domestic
Relations
Division)
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/9/2015
ONE (1) Unexpired Term Ending
1/12/17
Member
of
Cuyahoga
County
Council ONE (1) From the 1st, 3rd,
5th, 7th, 9th and 11th
ONE (1) 10th District Unexpired
Term Ending 12/31/2016
Member of County Central Committee ONE (1) From most precincts
REPUBLICAN PRIMARY
Governor and Lieutenant Governor
ONE (1)
Attorney General ONE (1)
Auditor of State ONE (1)

586

April 30, 2014
Secretary of State ONE (1)
Treasurer of State ONE (1)
Representative to Congress ONE
(1) From the 9th, 11th, 14th, and
16th Congressional Districts
Justice of the Supreme Court ONE
(1) Full Term Commencing 1/1/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/2/2015
Judge of the Court of Appeals
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
2/9/2015
(Eighth District) ONE (1) Full
Term Commencing 2/10/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
2/11/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
2/12/2015
Member of State Central Committee, Man ONE (1) From the 21st,
23rd, 24th and 25th State Senate Districts
Member of State Central Committee Woman ONE (1) From the 21st,
23rd, 24th and 25th State Senate Districts
State Senator ONE (1) From the
21st, 23rd and 25th State Senate Districts
State
Representative
ONE
(1)
From the 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th,
12th, 13th, 14th, 15th and 16th
Judge of the Court of Common
Pleas ONE (1) Full Term Commencing 1/1/2015
(General Division) ONE (1) Full
Term Commencing 1/2/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/3/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/4/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/5/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/6/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/7/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/10/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
2/9/2015
ONE (1) Unexpired Term Ending
1/11/2017
Judge of the Court of Common
Pleas ONE (1) Full Term Commencing 1/8/2015
(Domestic
Relations
Division)
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/9/2015
ONE (1) Unexpired Term Ending
1/12/17
Member
of
Cuyahoga
County
Council ONE (1) From the 1st, 3rd,
5th, 7th, 9th and 11th
GREEN PRIMARY
Governor and Lieutenant Governor
ONE (1)
Member of County Central Committee SEVEN (7) From Cuyahoga
County
LIBERTARIAN PRIMARY
Auditor of State ONE (1)
Secretary of State ONE (1)
Representative to Congress ONE
(1) 14th Congressional District
Member of State Central Committee ONE (1) 14th Congressional District
And determining the following
questions and issues:
STATE ISSUES
Proposed Constitutional Amendment – Issue One – to fund public
infrastructure capital improvements
by permitting the issuance of general obligation bonds in the amount
of no more than $1.875 billion over
a ten-year period, with no more than

April 30, 2014
$175 million issued in each of the
first five fiscal years and no more
than $200 million in each of the next
five fiscal years, to be repaid annually in no more than thirty (30)
years.
SCHOOL ISSUES
BROOKLYN CITY
SCHOOL DISTRICT
Proposed Tax Levy (Renewal) –
6.7 mills for the purpose of avoiding
an operating deficit for six years.
NORTH ROYALTON CITY
SCHOOL DISTRICT
Proposed Bond Issue - $49,830,000
for the purpose of constructing, renovating, remodeling, rehabilitating,
adding to, furnishing, equipping and
otherwise improving buildings and
facilities, and preparing, equipping
and otherwise improving real estate,
for school district purposes and an
annual levy of 2.56 mills over a maximum period of 35 years.
OLMSTED FALLS CITY
SCHOOL DISTRICT
Proposed Bond Issue - $15,000,000
for the purpose of rehabilitating,
renovating, remodeling, adding to,
furnishing, equipping and otherwise
improving
Olmsted
Falls
High
School and an annual levy of 1.8
mills over a maximum period of 30
years.
PARMA CITY
SCHOOL DISTRICT
Proposed Tax Levy (Renewal) –
3.8 mills for the purpose of providing for the emergency requirements
of the Parma City School District for
ten years.
SHAKER HEIGHTS CITY SCHOOL
DISTRICT
Proposed Tax Levy (Additional) –
6.9 mills for the purpose of current
expenses for a continuing period of
time.
COUNTY ISSUES
PROPOSED EXTENSION OF
ALCOHOL AND CIGARETTE
TAXES FOR SPORTS FACILITIES
For the purpose of paying the
costs of constructing, renovating,
improving, or repairing sports facilities and reimbursing a county for
costs incurred by the county in the
construction
of
sports
facilities,
shall excise taxes be levied by
Cuyahoga County at the rate of
three dollars on each gallon of spirituous liquor sold in the county, sixteen cents per gallon on the sale of
beer at wholesale in the county,
thirty-two cents per gallon on the
sale of wine and mixed beverages
at wholesale in the county, twentyfour cents per gallon on the sale of
cider at wholesale in the county,
and 2.25 mills per cigarette on the
sale of cigarettes at wholesale in
the county, for 20 years beginning
August 1, 2015.

The City Record
pay costs to repave, repair, upgrade
and maintain city streets, for a ten
years, commencing in tax year 2014?
CITY OF BROOK PARK
WARD 3 PRECINCT A
Local Option – Permitting the sale
of wine and mixed beverages on
Sunday between the hours of eleven
a.m. and midnight by True North
Energy, L.L.C., dba True North #373
at 13030 Brookpark Road, Brook
Park, OH 44135.
CITY OF BROOKLYN
PRECINCT D
Local Option – Permitting the sale
of wine and mixed beverages and
spirituous liquor on Sunday between
the hours of ten a.m. and midnight
by Brooklyn Wings, L. L. C., dba
Buffalo Wild Wings at 5020 Tiedemen Road, Brooklyn, OH 44144.
CITY OF CLEVELAND
Proposed Charter Amendment Shall Section 33 of the Charter of
the City of Cleveland be amended to
provide that copies of ordinances
and resolutions shall be introduced
in the Council in electronic, digital,
written or printed form, and that
members of council shall receive an
electronic, digital, written or printed copy of an ordinance prior to the
final reading of that ordinance?
CITY OF CLEVELAND WARD 15
PRECINCT A
Local Option – Permitting the sale
of wine and mixed beverages and
spirituous liquor on Sunday between
the hours of ten a.m. and midnight
by Riser Foods Company dba Clifton
Market District 5106 at 11604 Clifton
Blvd., Cleveland, OH 44102.
CITY OF CLEVELAND HEIGHTS
WARD 2 PRECINCT G
Local Option – Permitting the sale
of wine and mixed beverages on
Sunday between the hours of eleven
a.m. and midnight by True North
Energy, L. L. C., dba True North 308
at
2310
Lee
Road,
Cleveland
Heights, OH 44118.
CITY OF GARFIELD HEIGHTS
Proposed Zoning Amendment Shall Ordinance No. 56-2013 of the
City of Garfield Heights, changing
the zoning of nine (9) parcels of
land (PP# 542-12-002, 542-12-004, 54212-005, 542-12-006, 542-12-010, 542-12013, 542-12-015, 542-12-016 and 542-17010) located North of North Granger
Road, South of Midwest Avenue, and
West of Transportation Boulevard
from U-1 (Single-Family Districts)
and U-6 districts (Light Manufacturing Districts), to U-11B (Industrial Park Districts) be approved?

MUNICIPAL ISSUES

CITY OF MAPLE HEIGHTS
Proposed Income Tax (Increase) Shall the Ordinance providing for a
0.5% levy increase on income, to a
rate of 3% per annum, for the purpose of current expenses and general operation of the city, effective
July 1, 2014, be passed?

CITY OF BEDFORD HEIGHTS
Proposed Charter Amendment Shall Article XIII, Section 13.07 of
the Charter of the City of Bedford
Heights be amended to authorize to
renew a levy of taxes, in an amount
not to exceed 2 mills per year, for
the purpose of providing funds to

VILLAGE OF
NEWBURGH HEIGHTS
Proposed Ordinance - Shall the
proposed Ordinance reducing the
number of members of Village Council from six (6) to five (5) effective
for Council terms commencing January 1, 2016 be adopted?

587

25
CITY OF PARMA WARD 9
PRECINCT F
Local Option – Permitting the sale
of wine and mixed beverages and
spirituous liquor on Sunday between
the hours of ten a.m. and midnight
by Moonlight Tavern Inc. at 6174
Broadview Road, 1st fl and bsmt,
Parma, OH 44134.
CITY OF PEPPER PIKE
Proposed Tax Levy (Renewal) – 4
mills for the purpose of purpose of
providing
and
maintaining
fire
buildings,
apparatus,
appliances,
and for the payment of permanent,
part-time,
firefighter/emergency
medical service personnel to operate
the City’s fire equipment including
ambulance for five years.
CITY OF ROCKY RIVER
WARD 2 PRECINCT C
Local Option – Permitting the sale
wine and mixed beverages and spirituous liquor on Sunday between the
hours of ten a.m. and midnight by
Riser Foods Co. dba Giant Eagle
#1297 at 22080-22160 Center Ridge
Rd., Rocky River, OH 44116.
CITY OF SEVEN HILLS
Proposed Tax Levy (Renewal) –
0.5 mill for the purpose of acquiring
motorized vehicles and equipment,
including a street sweeper, a tractor
with front-end loader and backhoe,
a mower, dump trucks, pick-up
trucks, and snow plow assemblies,
salt spreaders and other related
equipment therefor, for use in carrying out functions of the Department of Public Service for five
years.
CITY OF SOUTH EUCLID
WARD 4 PRECINCT D
Local Option – Permitting the sale
of wine and mixed beverages on
Sunday between the hours of eleven
a.m. and midnight by True North
Energy, L. L. C., dba True North
#356 at 14473 Cedar Road, South
Euclid, OH 44121.
CITY OF STRONGSVILLE
Proposed Tax Levy (Renewal) –
1.5 mills for the purpose of current
expenses for five years.
CITY OF STRONGSVILLE
Proposed Zoning Amendment Shall the Zoning Map of Strongsville
be amended to change the classification of certain real estate located
at 8422 Pearl Road (part of PP# 39505-012) for the purpose of rezoning
the property from its present zoning
classification of R1-75 (One Family
75) to GB (General Business) classification?
CITY OF STRONGSVILLE
WARD 2 PRECINCT E
Local Option – Permitting the sale
of wine and mixed beverages and
spirituous liquor on Sunday between
the hours of ten a.m. and midnight
by Tamarkin Co. dba Giant Eagle
4086
at
15919
Pearl
Road,
Strongsville, OH 44149.
The polls for the election will be
open at 6:30 a.m. and will remain
open until 7:30 p.m. on election day.
BY ORDER OF
THE BOARD OF ELECTIONS,
CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO
INAJO DAVIS CHAPPELL, CHAIR
PAT MCDONALD, DIRECTOR

26
PROCLAMACIÓN AVISO
DE ELECCIÓN PRIMARIA
R.C. 3501.03
La Junta Electoral del Condado de
Cuyahoga, Ohio, publica esta Proclamación y Aviso de Elección.
SE CELEBRAR UNA
ELECCIÓN PRIMARIA
EL MARTES, 6 de mayo de 2014
en los lugares usuales para celebrar elecciones en todos y cada uno
de los distritos electorales del Condado de Cuyahoga o en los lugares
que pueda designar la Junta, con el
fin de elegir candidatos del partido
y
seleccionar
miembros
de
los
comités del control de los partidos
polóticos:
PRIMARIA DEMÓCRATA
Gobernador
y
Vicegobernador
UNO (1)
Fiscal General UNO (1)
Auditor del Estado UNO (1)
Secretario de Estado UNO (1)
Tesorero del Estado UNO (1)
Representante al Congreso UNO
(1) Distritos 9, 11, 14 y 16 del Congreso
Juez del Tribunal Supremo UNO
(1) Período Completo Comenzando el
1/1/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 1/2/15
Juez del Tribunal de Apelaciones
(Distrito Ocho) UNO (1) Período
Completo Comenzando el 2/9/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 2/10/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 2/11/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 2/12/15
Miembro del Comité Central del
Estado, Hombre UNO (1) Distritos
21, 23, 24 y 25 del Senado del Estado
Miembro del Comité Central del
Estado, Mujer UNO (1) Distritos 21,
23, 24 y 25 del Senado del Estado
Senador del Estado UNO (1) Distritos 21, 23 y 25 del Senado del
Estado
Representante del Estado UNO (1)
De los Distritos 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13,
14, 15 y 16 del Representante del
Estado
Juez del Tribunal de Causas
Comunes UNO (1) Período Completo
Comenzando el 1/1/15
(División General) UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 1/2/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 1/3/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 1/4/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 1/5/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 1/6/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 1/7/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 1/10/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 2/9/15
UNO (1) Período Inconcluso que
Finaliza el 1/11/17
Juez del Tribunal de Causas
Comunes UNO (1) Período Completo
Comenzando el 1/8/15
(División de Relaciones Doméstic)
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 1/9/15
UNO (1) Período Inconcluso que
Finaliza el 1/12/17
Miembro del Consejo del Condado
UNO (1) Distritos 1, 3, 5, 7, 9 y 11
UNO (1) Distrito 10, Período Inconcluso que Finaliza el 12/31/16

The City Record

April 30, 2014

Miembro del Comité Central del
Condado UNO (1) De la mayoría de
los distritos electorales

on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”

PRIMARIA REPUBLICANA
Gobernador
y
Vicegobernador
UNO (1)
Fiscal General UNO (1)
Auditor del Estado UNO (1)
Secretario de Estado UNO (1)
Tesorero del Estado UNO (1)
Representante al Congreso UNO
(1) Distritos 9, 11, 14 y 16 del Congreso
Juez del Tribunal Supremo UNO
(1) Período Completo Comenzando el
1/1/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 1/2/15
Juez del Tribunal de Apelaciones
(Distrito Ocho) UNO (1) Período
Completo Comenzando el 2/9/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 2/10/15
_____
April 9, 2014 and April 30, 2014

THURSDAY, MAY 15, 2014

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

File No. 54-14 — Pool Chemicals, for
the
Division
of
Recreation,
Department of Pubic Works, as
authorized by Section 181.101 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 1, 2014 AT
10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, DIVISION OF RECREATION, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 55-14 — EMS Inventory
Management Systems, for the
Division of Emergency Medical
Services, Department of Pubic
Safety, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 1, 2014 AT 1:00
P.M. CLEVELAND CITY HALL,
DIVISION OF PURCHASE AND
SUPPLIES,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.

CITY of CLEVELAND BIDS
April 23, 2014 and April 30, 2014
FRIDAY, MAY 16, 2014
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made

588

File No. 51-14 — Cable Carts and
Related Equipment, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department
of
Public
Works, as authorized by Ordinance No. 790-13, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
May 20, 2013.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MAY 2, 2014 AT 10:00 A.M.
MOTOR
VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE,
4150
EAST
49TH
STREET, BUILDING #1, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
File No. 52-14 — Purchase Various
Steering Gear and Related Parts,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public Works, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1330-A-10, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 6, 2010.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MAY 2, 2014 AT 10:30 A.M.
MOTOR
VEHICLE
MAINTE49TH
EAST
NANCE,
4150
STREET, BUILDING #1, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
File No. 53-14 — Direct Haul of
Municipal Solid Waste, for the
Division
of
Waste
Collection,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 149913, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, November 25,
2013.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
WEDNESDAY, MAY 7, 2014 AT
10:00 A.M. THE DIVISION OF
WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL,
4150
EAST
49TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44105.
April 23, 2014 and April 30, 2014

April 30, 2014
THURSDAY, MAY 22, 2014
File No. 59-14 Employee Uniforms,
(Re-bid), for the Various Divisions of Port Control, Department
of Port Control, as authorized by
Section 181.101 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MAY 9, 2014 AT 10:00 A.M.
CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S
CENTRAL RECEIVING BUILDING,
19451
FIVE
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND, OH 44135-3193.
File No. 60-14 Constructing and
Installing Replacement Sewers
and Repairing and Rehabilitation
of Existing Sewers, (Re-bid), for
the Division of Water Pollution
Control, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1105-13, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
September 23, 2013.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) ONLY IN THE FORM OF
A CASHIER’S CHECK OR A
MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 8, 2014 AT
11:30 A.M. THE DIVISION OF
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL,
12302 KIRBY AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
April 30, 2014 and May 7, 2014
FRIDAY, MAY 23, 2014
File No. 56-14 Regular and Synthetic Lubricants, for the Division of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Section 131.64 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MAY 9, 2014 AT 10:30 A.M.
MOTOR
VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE,
4150
EAST
49TH
STREET, BUILDING #1, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
File No. 57-14 International Truck
Parts and Labor, for the Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Section 131.64 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MAY 9, 2014 AT 10:00 A.M.

The City Record
MOTOR
VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE,
4150
EAST
49TH
STREET, BUILDING #1, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
File No. 58-14 Vehicle Exhaust System Upgrade, for the Division of
Fire, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1089-13, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, August
14, 2013.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 8, 2014 AT 1:00
P.M. CLEVELAND FIRE HEADQUARTERS,
1645
SUPERIOR
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
April 30, 2014 and May 7, 2014
WEDNESDAY, MAY 28, 2014
File No. 61-14 Labor And Materials
For Maintenance of Uninterruptible
Power
Supply
Systems,
Appurtenances And Specialized
Batteries, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 675-13, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, May 20,
2013.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 8, 2014 AT
10:00 A.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
2ND
FLOOR
CONFERENCE
ROOM,
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
April 30, 2014 and May 7, 2014

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 534-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 4423
Detroit Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for a New C1 Liquor
Permit at Maria Food Market, LLC,
DBA Thomas Beverage, 4423 Detroit
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 5531533; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with

589

27
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Maria Food Market,
LLC, DBA Thomas Beverage, 4423
Detroit Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44113, Permanent Number 5531533;
and requests the Superintendent of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 21, 2014.
Effective April 22, 2014.

Res. No. 538-14.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor Permit to 6101 Memphis
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from
Memphis Station, LLC, DBA Memphis
Station, 6101 Memphis Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44144, Permanent Number
5830264 to Memphis March 2014, LLC,
6101 Memphis Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44144,
Permanent
Number
5830330; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of

28
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from
Memphis Station, LLC, DBA Memphis
Station, 6101 Memphis Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44144, Permanent Number
5830264 to Memphis March 2014, LLC,
6101 Memphis Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44144,
Permanent
Number
5830330; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 21, 2014.
Effective April 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 263-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Law to apply for
and accept a grant from the Criminal
Justice Services Agency for the FY
2013 Cleveland Domestic Violence
Program; and to enter into one or
more contracts with Cuyahoga County and other entities to implement the
program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Law
is authorized to apply for and accept a
grant in the approximate amount of
$108,202.84, and any other funds that
may become available during the
grant term, from the Criminal Justice
Service Agency, to conduct the FY
2013 Cleveland Domestic Violence
Program, for the purposes set forth in
the application and according thereto; that the Director of Law is authorized to file all papers and execute all

The City Record
documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the file for the
grant.
Section 2. That the award letter,
budget, and narrative for the grant,
File No. 263-14-A, made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance Committee of
this Council at the public hearing on
this legislation and shall not be
changed without additional legislative authority, including the obligation of the City of Cleveland to provide cash matching funds in the sum
of $36,067.61 from Fund No. 01-10016397, is approved in all respects. (RQS
6001, RL 2014-10).
Section 3. That the Director of Law
is authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with the County of Cuyahoga and one or more contracts with
other entities to implement the program as described in the file.
Section 4. That the Law Director
will provide an update on the
progress of the program for Council to
review in October, 2014.
Section 5. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under
this ordinance and the cash match.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 21, 2014.
Effective April 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 298-14.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into an agreement with Cuyahoga County to transfer the responsibility of answering cellular 9-1-1 calls
made within the City of Cleveland
from the County to the City for a period of five years, with one five-year
option to renew exercisable by the
Director of Public Safety; authorizing
the City to accept funds from the
County to support the City’s increased
responsibility; and authorizing other
agreements with various wireless
providers.
Whereas,
currently
Cuyahoga
County through the Cuyahoga Emergency
Communications
System
(“CECOMS”) answers all cellular 91-1 calls made in Cuyahoga County,
including those calls made within
the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, currently CECOMS then
transfers these calls to the appropriate
Public
Safety
Answering
Point (“PSAP”) based upon caller
location; and
Whereas, the City’s Department of
Public Safety, Division of Police,
operates a PSAP in Cleveland; and
Whereas, the County and the City
desire to have CECOMS no longer
answer cellular 9-1-1 calls originating in Cleveland but rather for the
City’s PSAP to directly answer and
handle these calls; and
Whereas, the County desires to
assist the City in taking over
CECOM’s responsibilities for these

590

April 30, 2014
calls by providing certain funding;
and
Whereas, the Cuyahoga County 91-1 Board has approved the transfer
of this responsibility from CECOMS
to the City’s PSAP; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
an agreement with Cuyahoga County
to transfer the responsibility of
directly answering 9-1-1 cellular calls
made within the City of Cleveland
from the County’s CECOMS to the City
of Cleveland Department of Public
Safety’s PSAP for a period of five
years, with one five-year option to
renew, exercisable by the Director of
Public Safety (the “Transfer Agreement”).
Section 2. That the Transfer Agreement shall provide that the City
receive up to $600,000 annually from
the County to support the City’s
increased responsibilities following
the transfer, and shall not exceed
$3,000,000 over the five-year initial
term. That under the Transfer Agreement, the parties agree that the
amount of the County’s payments to
the City under the Transfer Agreement is contingent upon the amount
of funding the County receives from
the State of Ohio Wireless Government Assistance Fund.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with various
cellular providers to implement this
ordinance (the “Provider Agreements”). The Provider Agreements
shall run independently of the Transfer Agreement and may, as determined appropriate by the Director of
Public Safety, exceed the term of the
Transfer Agreement and continue
even if the Transfer Agreement is terminated early under the terms of the
Transfer Agreement.
Section 4. That Transfer Agreement
and Provider Agreements shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 21, 2014.
Effective April 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 301-14.
By Council Members Zone, K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to Near West Theater,
Inc. to encroach into the public rightof-way below and at grade of West
67th Street by installing, using, and
maintaining a frost slab, pier shoring,
and an entrance doorway.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

April 30, 2014
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit, revocable at the will of Council, to Near West Theater, Inc., 6702
Detroit Avenue N.W. Cleveland, Ohio
44102 (“Permittee”), to encroach into
the public right-of-way below and at
grade of West 67th Street by
installing, using, and maintaining a
frost slab, pier shoring, and an
entrance doorway at the following
locations:
Below Grade frost slab and
pier shoring
Legal Description of 3.5 foot wide
Encroachment Area For
Near West Theatre, Inc.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot
Number 32, bounded and described as
follows: Beginning at the intersection
of the northerly line of Detroit
Avenue N.W. (66 feet wide) with the
westerly line of West 67th Street (40
feet wide), said point also being the
southeasterly corner of a parcel of
land conveyed to Near West Theatre,
Inc., as recorded in File Number
______________________ of Cuyahoga
County Deed Records;
Thence along the westerly line of
said West 67th Street, North 00°52'45"
East, a distance of 70.74 feet to the
Principal Place of Beginning;
Thence continuing along the westerly line of said West 67th Street,
North 00°52'45" East, a distance of
150.68 feet to the northeasterly corner
of said parcel of land conveyed to
Near West Theatre, Inc.
Thence South 89°07'15" East a distance of 3.50 feet to a point;
Thence parallel with the aforesaid
westerly line of West 67th Street bearing South 00°52'45" West, a distance
of 150.68 feet to a point;
Thence North 89°09'47" West a distance of 3.50 feet to the Principal
Place of Beginning and containing
0.0121 acre of land according to a survey by Matthew C. Neff, Professional
Ohio Surveyor #7315, of the M. Neff
Design Group dated February 26,
2013. Be the same more or less but subject to all legal highways Below
Grade Legal Description of 3.5 foot
wide Encroachment Area For Near
West Theatre, Inc.
At Grade entrance doorway.
Legal Description of 3.5 foot wide
Encroachment Area For
Near West Theatre, Inc.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of

The City Record
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot
Number 32, bounded and described as
follows: Beginning at the intersection
of the northerly line of Detroit
Avenue N.W. (66 feet wide) with the
westerly line of West 67th Street (40
feet wide), said point also being the
southeasterly corner of a parcel of
land conveyed to Near West Theatre,
Inc., as recorded in File Number
______________________ of Cuyahoga
County Deed Records;
Thence along the westerly line of
said West 67th Street, North 00°52'45"
East, a distance of 185.02 feet to the
Principal Place of Beginning;
Thence continuing along the westerly line of said West 67th Street,
North 00°52'45" East, a distance of
15.00 feet to a point.
Thence South 89°07'15" East a distance of 3.50 feet to a point;
Thence parallel with the aforesaid
westerly line of West 67th Street bearing South 00°52'45" West, a distance
of 15.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 89°09'47" West a distance of 3.50 feet to the Principal
Place of Beginning and containing
0.0012 acre of land according to a survey by Matthew C. Neff, Professional
Ohio Surveyor #7315, of the M. Neff
Design Group dated February 26,
2013. Be the same more or less but subject to all legal highways.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Capital Projects. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans and
specifications first approved by the
Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain
all other required permits, including
but not limited to Building Permits,
before
installing
the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
a prospective Permittee has properly
indemnified the City against any loss
that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry
to
the
encroachment
location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure

29
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 21, 2014.
Effective April 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 464-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving
the collective bargaining agreement
with the Ohio Nurses Association.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B)
of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code,
this Council approves the collective
bargaining agreement with Ohio
Nurses Association, under the terms
contained in File No. 464-14-A, for the
period from April 1, 2013 through
March 31, 2016, and which provides,
among other things, for an increase in
the salaries and wages for members
of the bargaining unit under the following schedule:
Increase

Approximate Date
of Increase*

1%
2%
2%

April 1, 2013
April 1, 2014
April 1, 2015

* Wage increases shall be effective as
follows:
(a) If April 1st falls in the first
week of a pay period, then the wage
increase shall be effective commencing at the beginning of that pay period; or
(b) If April 1st falls in the second
week of a pay period, then the wage
increase shall be effective commencing at the beginning of the next pay
period.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 21, 2014.
Effective April 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 495-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Sections 33, 36, and 42 of Ordinance No. 385-14, passed March 31, 2014, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 33, 36, and 42 of Ordinance No. 385-14, passed March 31, 2014, are amended to read as
follows:
Section 33. That the salaries and the compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

591

30
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.

The City Record
Accountant IV ..............................................................................
Airport Operations Agent III ...............................................
Assistant Personnel Administrator ......................................
Assistant Water Plant Manager ...........................................
Assistant Water Plant Manager – Parma ........................
Budget and Management Analyst ........................................
Chief Animal Control Officer .................................................
Demolition Compliance Officer ..............................................
Labor Relations Assistant .......................................................
Machinist Unit Leader ..............................................................
Rehabilitation Supervisor ........................................................
Superintendent of Sewer Maintenance................................
Supervisor of Architectural Construction ..........................
Supervisor of Personnel Records ..........................................
Supervisor of Site Development ............................................
Supervisor of Vital Statistics .................................................
Systems Analyst ..........................................................................
Water System Construction Inspector Supervisor ..........

April 30, 2014
Minimum
$20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
10.00
10.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
26,797.11
20,800.00
14.28
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00

Maximum
$61,213.89
57,473.28
57,473.28
34.11
34.11
57,473.28
84,555.45
97,572.38
55,528.34
25.77
55,528.34
76,867.55
57,496.23
55,528.34
55,528.34
57,473.28
63,677.78
64,449.34

Section 36. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.

Airport Operations Superintendent.......................................
Airport Security Coordinator ..................................................
Assistant Airport Safety Chief/Training Officer ...........
Human Resources Program Planning &
Management Specialist .........................................................
Assistant Manager of Stage ...................................................
Chief of Bureau of Accounts and Collections .................
Chief of Bureau of Smoke Abatement ...............................
Chief Engineer-Traffic ..............................................................
Chief Senior Electric Switchboard Operator ....................
Chief of Tax Auditing Bureau..............................................
Chief of Tax Records Bureau ...............................................
Deputy Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies .........
Grants Administrator.................................................................
Health Center Director .............................................................
Human Resources Fiscal Administrator ............................
Income Tax Financial Supervisor ........................................
Manager of Assigned Maintenance......................................
Manager of Parks and Recreation Research and
Planning .....................................................................................
Manager of Parks and Urban Forestry .............................
Manager of Site Development................................................
Prevailing Wage Coordinator ................................................
Project Director ...........................................................................
Programming Supervisor..........................................................
Superintendent of Sidewalks ..................................................
Warehouse Inventory Manager .............................................
Water Business Plan Assistant Manager..........................

Minimum
$23,333.40
23,333.40
23,333.40

Maximum
$67,822.56
65,528.58
65,528.58

22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40

65,528.58
65,528.58
65,528.58
65,528.58
76,344.01
82,416.00
67,822.56
65,528.58
77,446.20
77,446.20
77,446.20
65,528.58
65,528.58
76,344.01

22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
27,193.50
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40

76,344.01
76,344.01
76,344.01
69,367.62
82,706.96
65,528.58
65,528.58
82,706.96
82,706.96

Section 42. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Administration Bureau Manager...........................................
Assistant Manager - Applications Development and
Technical Support ...................................................................
Assistant Manager - Data Processing Operations .........
Assistant to Manager of Planning ......................................
Customer Support and Inspection Scheduling
Coordinator ................................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Cleveland Public Power ........

Minimum
$40,314.82

Maximum
$136,049.25

46,224.91
46,224.91
46,224.91

128,595.56
118,705.54
118,705.54

42,286.40
46,224.91

97,572.38
133,631.28

Section 2. That existing Sections 33, 36, and 42 of Ordinance No. 385-14, passed March 31, 2014, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 21, 2014.
Effective April 22, 2014.

592

April 30, 2014
Ord. No. 497-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$21,200,000 for the purpose of providing funds for Bridges and Roadway
improvements and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $21,200,000
to
Bonds”)
(the
“Series
2014B
finance the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section  1; and
Whereas, the Series 2014B Bonds
shall be payable from and secured
by income tax revenues of the City
remaining after deposits required
under the General Bond Ordinance
(as defined in Section 2) are made
to the escrow agent for the City’s
general obligation bonds; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Series 2014B
Bonds is at least five years and the
maximum maturity of the Series
2014B Bonds is 18 years, as evidenced by the certificate contained
in File No. 497-14-A; and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Series 2014B Bonds
is necessary to provide funds to pay
the
costs
of
certain
permanent
improvements described in Section 1
that are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City, and as a result,
this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, property, health and safety, and for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed necessary to issue the Series 2014B Bonds
in an aggregate principal amount not
to exceed $21,200,000 for the purpose
of providing funds to improve the
municipal street system and related
facilities, including streets, expressways, roadways, driveways, driveway approaches, retaining walls,
underground vaults, sidewalks and
pedestrian walkways, by acquiring,
constructing, reconstructing, opening, extending, widening, grading,
draining, paving, resurfacing, striping, lighting and curbing, removing
or reconstructing underground vaults
to preserve the public right of way;
installing gutters, on-street bicycle
facilities, bicycle paths, sidewalks
and related pedestrian improvements;
constructing, installing and improving bus stations, ADA ramps and
streetscape entryways; constructing
and improving culverts; constructing
sanitary sewers, storm sewers and
water lines; resetting and constructing catch basins and other storm
drainage facilities; constructing,
reconstructing, replacing, renovating
and rehabilitating bridges; acquiring
any real estate and interests in real
estate, including easements, necessary for such purpose; and installing
street lighting and signs, signals,
markings and other devices for traffic control purposes, together with all
necessary and incidental appurtenances, and to pay any capitalized
interest and all expenses incurred in

The City Record
connection with the issuance of the
securities, including all financing
costs within the meaning of Section
133.01(K) of the Revised Code and
such other costs of the foregoing permanent improvements that may be
financed with the proceeds of securities as permitted by Section 133.15(B)
of the Ohio Revised Code and as otherwise permitted by law.
Section 2. Authority, Security and
Source of Payment. The Series 2014B
Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the
Ohio Constitution, Chapter 133 of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Charter of the
City, and this Ordinance for the purpose stated in Section  1. The Series
2014B Bonds shall be payable from
and secured by the income tax revenues of the City on a basis subordinate to the security given to the General Obligation Bonds of the City
(“General Obligation Bonds”) under
Ordinance No. 1749-80 passed by the
Council on October 8, 1980, as amended by Ordinance No. 1112-83 passed by
the Council on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed by the Council on June 10, 1996 (Ordinance No.
1749-80, as so amended and as the
same may further be amended from
time to time in accordance with its
provisions, is referred to as the “General Bond Ordinance”). The debt service on the Series 2014B Bonds shall
be payable from income tax collections remaining after depositing with
the escrow agent under the General
Bond Ordinance the amount required
for the payment of debt service on the
City’s General Obligation Bonds
issued and outstanding, from time to
time, under the General Bond Ordinance. The Series 2014B Bonds shall
be issued and secured under the terms
of the Trust Indenture, dated as of
April 1, 2008, between the City and
U.S. Bank National Association, as
trustee (the “Trustee”), as amended
by Section 6.1 of the Second Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated as of
June 1, 2010, between the City and the
Trustee (together, the “Indenture”).
The Indenture currently secures five
series of Subordinate Lien Income
Tax Bonds issued on May 1, 2008 (collectively, the “Series 2008 Bonds”),
four series of Subordinate Lien
Income Tax Bonds issued on June 23,
2010 (collectively, the “Series 2010
Bonds”), one series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
November 29, 2012 (the “Series 2012
Bonds”), three series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
May 30, 2013 (collectively, the “Series
2013 Bonds”), and three series of Subordinate Lien Income Tax Bonds
issued on February 11, 2014 (collectively, the “Series 2014A Bonds”) and
permits the issuance of additional
bonds, from time to time, subject to
certain restrictions. The Series 2008
Bonds, the Series 2010 Bonds, the
Series 2012 Bonds, the Series 2013
Bonds, the Series 2014A Bonds, the
Series 2014B Bonds and any additional bonds issued under the Indenture
are collectively referred to in this
Ordinance as the “Bonds.”
Section 3. Pledge and Covenant to
Maintain Income Tax. So long as
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City pledges the
municipal income taxes of the City
and grants a lien thereon, subordinate to the lien granted in the General Bond Ordinance as security for the
General Obligation Bonds of the City
issued and outstanding under the
General Bond Ordinance, to the full

593

31
extent required to meet debt charges
payable on the Bonds issued and outstanding, from time to time, under the
Indenture. The City covenants to
appropriate
annually
sufficient
amounts from the income taxes to pay
all debt charges on the General Obligation Bonds, the Bonds outstanding
under the Indenture, any Parity
Obligations and the Unrestricted
Income Tax Obligations (each as
defined in the Indenture). The City
further covenants that so long as any
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City shall not repeal or
amend, or suffer the repeal of, any
ordinance for the levy or collection of
its income taxes in any manner or to
such extent that the City would not be
able to meet its obligations to the
holders of the Bonds.
Section 4. Terms of the Series 2014B
Bonds. The Series 2014B Bonds shall
be issued in fully registered form.
The Series 2014B Bonds may be issued
in one or more series or subseries. The
Series 2014B Bonds may be delivered
only in book-entry form, and if so
delivered, shall be registered in the
name of the Depository (as defined in
the Indenture) or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the
custody of the Depository, and shall
not be transferable or exchangeable
(except for transfer to another Depository or its nominee) without further
action by the City pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture and the Sixth
Supplement identified in Section 7.
The Series 2014B Bonds shall be desand
Roadway
ignated
“Bridges
Improvement Bonds, Series 2014B”
and may contain such further designation as provided in the Certificate
of Award identified below. The Series
2014B Bonds shall be issued in one lot
as fully registered Series 2014B Bonds
in denominations of $5,000 or any
whole multiple thereof. The Series
2014B Bonds shall be numbered as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Series 2014B Bonds
shall be signed by the officials of the
City and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture.
The Series 2014B Bonds shall be
dated the date of their issuance and
delivery or such other date specified
in the certificate of award providing
for the final terms of the Series 2014B
Bonds and the sale of the Series 2014B
Bonds in accordance with this Ordinance (the “Certificate of Award”).
The Series 2014B Bonds shall bear
interest from their date until the principal amount is paid at the rate or
rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award, provided that the yield
(determined in accordance with the
arbitrage provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) of
the Series 2014B Bonds shall not
exceed 6.00% per year. Interest on the
Series 2014B Bonds shall be payable
semi-annually on April 1 and October
1, or such other dates specified in the
Certificate of Award (the “Interest
Payment Dates”).
The Series 2014B Bonds shall
mature in the years and principal
amounts set forth in the Certificate of
Award, provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, and (ii) the final
maturity date of the Series 2014B
Bonds shall be no later than August 1,
2033. The Series 2014B Bonds stated to
mature in any year may be issued as
serial Series 2014B Bonds or as term
Series 2014B Bonds payable prior to
stated maturity pursuant to sinking

32
fund redemption (the “Term Bonds”).
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Series 2014B
Bonds shall be issued as Term Bonds,
any dates (the “Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund installments rather than at
stated maturity and the amount of
principal to be paid on each Mandatory Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”). If any of the Series 2014B
Bonds are issued as Term Series
2014B Bonds, the Term Bonds shall be
redeemed pursuant to the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements at a redemption price of 100%
of the principal amount redeemed,
plus interest accrued to the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates. The aggregate of the moneys to be deposited with the Trustee
for payment of principal of and interest on any Term Bonds shall include
amounts sufficient to redeem on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates the
principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided in
the Indenture and the Sixth Supplement).
The Series 2014B Bonds may be subject to redemption prior to maturity
by and at the option of the City, in
whole or in part on any date, in whole
multiples of $5,000, on the redemption
dates and at the redemption prices
specified in the Certificate of Award,
plus, in each case, accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that
it is in the best interests of the City
(i) for some or all of the Series 2014B
Bonds not to be callable prior to their
stated maturity, and (ii) for a premium to be payable on the redemption of
any Series 2014B Bonds calculated in
a manner to make the bondholder
whole for the loss of the investment or
calculated as a percentage in excess
of 100% of the principal amount
redeemed.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the City may
have the option to purchase any Bond
which is redeemable by optional
redemption at a purchase price not
less than the redemption price that
would be payable if that Bond were
called for optional redemption on the
date of the proposed purchase. That
election shall be exercised as provided in the Sixth Supplement.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the Series 2014B
Bonds may be secured by a Debt Service Reserve Fund to be held by the
Trustee under the Indenture. The
principal amount of the Series 2014B
Bonds may include provision for funding the Debt Service Reserve Fund
from the proceeds of the Bonds, subject to compliance with applicable
federal tax laws.
Section 5. Sale of Series 2014B
Bonds. The Series 2014B Bonds shall
first be offered for purchase to the
Trustees of the Sinking Fund and, if
not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to the purchaser identified in the Certificate of Award (the “Original Purchaser”). The Certificate of Award

The City Record
shall specify the final terms of the
Series 2014B Bonds in accordance
with law, the provisions of this Ordinance, the written advice of a financial advisor retained under authority
of Section  12 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the Series
2014B Bonds, including: the principal
amount of the Series 2014B Bonds
(which shall not exceed the amount
stated in Section  1), the purchase
price (which shall be not less than
97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal
installments are payable (at stated
maturity or pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), terms and conditions under
which any Series 2014B Bonds may be
redeemed prior to maturity at the
option of the City, the Interest Payment Dates and the date of the Series
2014B Bonds (if different from those
set forth in Section 3) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance to
be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest of
the City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Series 2014B Bonds and to make such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Series 2014B Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the Series
2014B Bonds to be delivered to the
Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take
all steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Series 2014B Bonds. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the City
a bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Series 2014B Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy the
Series 2014B Bonds on terms consistent with this Ordinance and the
Indenture, that are not substantially
adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Bond Purchase
Agreement or amendments to the
Bond Purchase Agreement by the
Director of Finance. It is determined
that the terms of the Series 2014B
Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance
and as may be provided in or pursuant
to the Certificate of Award, the Indenture and the Sixth Supplement, are in
the best interest of the City and in
compliance with all legal requirements.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Series 2014B Bonds shall be applied as
follows:

594

April 30, 2014
(a) to the payment of any providers
of any Credit Support Instruments,
the fees and expenses required to be
paid by the City to obtain the Credit
Support Instrument;
(b) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Interest Payment Account in the Debt
Service Fund, the amount, if any,
received by the City upon delivery of
the Series 2014B Bonds as accrued
interest from their dated date to the
date of their delivery to the Original
Purchaser;
(c) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Debt Service Reserve Fund, any
amount identified in the Certificate of
Award as required to be deposited in
the Debt Service Reserve Fund; and
(d) to the Trustee for deposit in the
Project Fund, the balance of the proceeds (including any original issue
premium received from the sale of the
Series 2014B Bonds).
Section 7. Supplemental Indenture;
Lease. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver on
behalf of the City a supplemental
trust indenture (the “Sixth Supplement”), supplementing the Indenture
to provide procedures for the authentication, registration and transfer of
the Series 2014B Bonds, redemption of
Series 2014B Bonds, payments under
any Credit Support Instrument authorized by Section 11, application of the
proceeds of the Series 2014B Bonds,
defeasance of the Series 2014B Bonds,
and other terms consistent with this
Ordinance and the Certificate of
Award and approved by the Director
of Finance as not substantially
adverse to the City. The Sixth Supplement shall be approved as to form by
the Director of Law. The determination by the Director of Finance that
the provisions of the Sixth Supplement are not substantially adverse to
the City shall be conclusively evidenced by the Director’s signing of
the Sixth Supplement. As appropriate
under the Charter, the Mayor, the
Director of Finance, the Director of
Law, the Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
sign, acknowledge and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, such
documents, certifications and instruments in addition to the Indenture
and Sixth Supplement as may be necessary or appropriate to issue and sell
the Series 2014B Bonds and to consummate the transactions authorized
by this Ordinance.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized to sign and deliver on
behalf of the City a five-year lease
agreement (the “Lease”) and any
related agreements with PlayhouseSquare Foundation, Inc. (“PSF”) for
the City’s acquisition, under Section
133.15 of the Revised Code, of a leasehold interest in the streetscape entryways described in Section 1 to be
acquired with a portion of the proceeds of the Series 2014B Bonds,
which proceeds of the Series 2014B
Bonds may be expended as a single
lease payment or pre-payment for the
rental  under the Lease. Pursuant to
the Lease, PSF shall agree, among
other things, to have full responsibility
for
maintaining
the
leased
streetscape entryways in substantially the same condition as they will be
at the commencement of the Lease
and not to make any structural alterations of the leased streetscape entryways without the written approval of
the City.

April 30, 2014
Section 8. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Series 2014B Bonds for the purpose set
forth in Section 1, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $21,200,000
(the “Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth in a
certificate providing for the final
terms of the Notes and the sale of the
Notes and signed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”). The Notes, if sold as fixed
rate obligations, shall bear interest at
such rate, not exceeding 6.00% per
year, and shall be payable on the date
or dates, as shall be determined by the
Director of Finance of the City in the
Note Certificate of Award; shall be
dated their date of issuance; shall
mature on the date set forth in the
Note Certificate of Award; shall be
subject to redemption by the City at
any time prior to maturity without
penalty, unless the Director of
Finance, based on the advice of a
financial advisor, determines that it
is in the best interest of the City in
order to enhance the marketability of
the Notes, that the Notes not be
redeemable prior to maturity or that a
premium be paid on their prior
redemption; shall be designated
“Bridges and Roadway Improvement
Bond Anticipation Notes” or as otherwise provided in the Note Certificate
of Award; shall be issued in such numbers and denominations as may be
requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form (which
may be in a book entry only system).
The provisions of Sections 9.98 to 9.983
of the Revised Code shall apply to the
Notes and pursuant to that authority
and this Ordinance, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, that the
City’s best interests will be served by
causing all or a portion of the Notes to
be obligations bearing interest at
variable rates. If the Director of
Finance so determines, then the
Director of Finance shall specify in
the Certificate of Award the method
and procedure by which the variable
rate of interest to be borne by the variable rate Notes shall be determined;
provided that the variable rate Notes
shall not bear interest at a rate in
excess of 25.00% per year. The Director of Finance is authorized to enter
into agreements in connection with
the delivery of the variable rate
Notes, and from time to time thereafter so long as the variable rate
Notes are outstanding, with providers
of Credit Support Instruments (as
defined in Section 11) and others as
may be determined by the Director of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Notes upon tender
for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment by the City
of any amounts drawn under the Credit Support Instrument. The Trustee
shall be the authenticating agent,
registrar, transfer agent and paying
agent for the Notes. The Notes shall
be signed by the officials of the City
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture. The Notes shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees

The City Record
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold at not less
than par and accrued interest to one
or more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note Purchaser”) in the principal amount set
forth in a certificate of award to be
executed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
The proceeds of such sale shall be
paid into the proper fund or funds set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 9. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Series 2014B Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or the
Series 2014B Bonds, as the case may
be, and any necessary supplements
and to authorize the use and distribution of each Official Statement and
any supplements. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign on
behalf of the City and in her official
capacity each Official Statement and
any supplements approved by her.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity such
certificates in connection with the
accuracy of each Official Statement
and any supplements as may, in her
judgment, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final” by
the City within the meaning of Securities and Exchange Commission
Rule 15c2-12 the “SEC Rule.” The
Director of Finance is authorized to
contract for services for the production and distribution of preliminary
and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Series 2014B Bonds,
the City agrees, in accordance with,
and as the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Series
2014B Bonds under the SEC Rule, to
provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that
purpose, and thereby to implement
that agreement, including provisions
for enforcement, amendment and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized and directed to prepare, or
cause to be prepared, and to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf of
the City, a continuing disclosure
agreement or certificate, which shall
constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Notes or the Series
2014B Bonds, as the case may be, in
accordance with the SEC Rule. The
performance of that agreement shall
be subject to the availability of funds

595

33
and their annual appropriation to
meet costs the City would be required
to incur to perform it. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 10. Federal Tax Considerations. The City covenants that it will
use, and will restrict the use and
investment of, the proceeds of the
Series 2014B Bonds and any Notes in
such manner and to such extent as
may be necessary so that (i)  the
Series 2014B Bonds and any Notes will
not (A) constitute private activity
bonds or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141 or 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of l986, as amended (the
“Code”) or (B) be treated other than
as bonds the interest on which is
excluded from gross income under
Section 103 of the Code, and (ii) the
interest on the Series 2014B Bonds
and any Notes will not be an item of
tax preference under Section 57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (i)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Series 2014B Bonds
and any Notes to be and remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (ii) it will not
take or authorize to be taken any
actions that would adversely affect
that exclusion, and (iii) it, or persons
acting for it, will, among other acts of
compliance, (A) apply the proceeds of
the Series 2014B Bonds and any Notes
to the governmental purpose of the
borrowing, (B) restrict the yield on
investment property, (C) make timely
and adequate payments to the federal
government, (D) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports and (E) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property financed with such
proceeds, all in such manner and to
the extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
The Director of Finance or any
other officer of the City having
responsibility for issuance of the
Series 2014B Bonds and any Notes is
hereby authorized (i) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Series 2014B Bonds and
any Notes as the City is permitted to
or required to make or give under the
federal income tax laws, including,
without limitation thereto, any of the
elections available under Section 148
of the Code, for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax treatment or tax status of the
Series 2014B Bonds and any Notes or
interest thereon, or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense
of such compliance, reducing rebate
amounts or payments or penalties or
making payments of special amounts
in lieu of making computations to
determine, or paying, excess earnings
as rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(ii) to take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make
payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and on
behalf of the City, as may be appropriate to assure the intended tax status of the Series 2014B Bonds and any

34
Notes and (iii) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Series 2014B Bonds
and any Notes, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Series 2014B
Bonds and any Notes, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on the Series
2014B Bonds and any Notes and the
tax status of the Series 2014B Bonds
and any Notes.
Section 11. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Series
2014B Bonds or any Notes (a “Credit
Support Instrument”). The Director of
Finance may request a rating on the
Series 2014B Bonds or Notes from one
or more nationally recognized rating
organizations, and do any and all
things and take any and all actions
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings
on the Series 2014B Bonds or Notes.
The Director of Finance may enter
into one or more agreements for Credit Support Instruments containing
terms not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance or the Indenture.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Series 2014B Bonds or Notes to the
extent available and otherwise from
any other funds lawfully available
that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 12. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 13. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and any of its
committees and that all deliberations
of this Council that resulted in these
formal actions were held, in meetings
open to the public in compliance with
all legal requirements, including,
without limitation, Section 121.22 of
the Revised Code.
Section 14. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Series 2014B Bonds and the

The City Record
Notes in order to make them legal,
valid and binding obligations of the
City have happened, been done and
been performed in regular and due
form as required by law; and that no
limitation of indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Series 2014B Bonds or
the Notes. It is further found and
determined, and is represented and
recited, that the provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of the
Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council
have been fully complied with and
this Ordinance was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 15. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy of
this Ordinance and of the Certificate
of Award for the Series 2014B Bonds
and any Note Certificate of Award to
the County Fiscal Officer of Cuyahoga County and to secure a receipt
therefore.
Section 16. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is declared to be an
independent section or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other
evidence of legislative intent, it is
declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such section or
part of a section or any provision
thereof, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person
or circumstance, other than those as
to which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 17. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio. Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance shall not apply to the
Series 2014B Bonds or the Notes authorized herein.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding Series 2014B Bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration was
duly received by the City prior to the
passage of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual

596

April 30, 2014
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Passed April 21, 2014.
Effective April 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 498-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$7,000,000 for the purpose of providing
funds to improve Municipal Parks
and Recreation Facilities and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $7,000,000
“Series
2014B
Bonds”)
to
(the
finance the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section  1; and
Whereas, the Series 2014B Bonds
shall be payable from and secured
by income tax revenues of the City
remaining after deposits required
under the General Bond Ordinance
(as defined in Section 2) are made
to the escrow agent for the City’s
general obligation bonds; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Series 2014B
Bonds is at least five years and the
maximum maturity of the Series
2014B Bonds is 21 years, as evidenced by the certificate contained
in File No. 498-14-A; and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Series 2014B Bonds
is necessary to provide funds to pay
the
costs
of
certain
permanent
improvements described in Section 1
that are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City, and as a result,
this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, property, health and safety, and for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed necessary to issue the Series 2014B Bonds
in an aggregate principal amount not
to exceed $7,000,000 for the purpose of
providing funds to improve municipal
parks and recreation facilities by constructing, reconstructing, rehabilitating, installing, renovating, enlarging
and otherwise improving parks and
recreation centers and areas, pools,
aquatic facilities, skating rinks,
greenhouses, bicycle paths, playgrounds, playfields, tracks, fields and
related buildings, structures, walkways, pavement, safety surfaces and
facilities, and providing necessary
water systems, drainage, lighting,
signage, fixtures, furnishings, equipment, safety modifications and site
improvements, together with all necessary and incidental appurtenances
and the acquisition of any required
real estate and interests in real estate
and the demolition of any existing

April 30, 2014
buildings, structures, walkways and
facilities, and to pay any capitalized
interest and all expenses incurred in
connection with the issuance of the
securities, including all financing
costs within the meaning of Section
133.01(K) of the Revised Code and
such other costs of the foregoing permanent improvements that may be
financed with the proceeds of securities as permitted by Section 133.15(B)
of the Ohio Revised Code and as otherwise permitted by law.
Section 2. Authority, Security and
Source of Payment. The Series 2014B
Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the
Ohio Constitution, Chapter 133 of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Charter of the
City, and this Ordinance for the purpose stated in Section  1. The Series
2014B Bonds shall be payable from
and secured by the income tax revenues of the City on a basis subordinate to the security given to the General Obligation Bonds of the City
(“General Obligation Bonds”) under
Ordinance No. 1749-80 passed by the
Council on October 8, 1980, as amended by Ordinance No. 1112-83 passed by
the Council on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed by the Council on June 10, 1996 (Ordinance No.
1749-80, as so amended and as the
same may further be amended from
time to time in accordance with its
provisions, is referred to as the “General Bond Ordinance”). The debt service on the Series 2014B Bonds shall
be payable from income tax collections remaining after depositing with
the escrow agent under the General
Bond Ordinance the amount required
for the payment of debt service on the
City’s General Obligation Bonds
issued and outstanding, from time to
time, under the General Bond Ordinance. The Series 2014B Bonds shall
be issued and secured under the terms
of the Trust Indenture, dated as of
April 1, 2008, between the City and
U.S. Bank National Association, as
trustee (the “Trustee”), as amended
by Section 6.1 of the Second Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated as of
June 1, 2010, between the City and the
Trustee (together, the “Indenture”).
The Indenture currently secures five
series of Subordinate Lien Income
Tax Bonds issued on May 1, 2008 (collectively, the “Series 2008 Bonds”),
four series of Subordinate Lien
Income Tax Bonds issued on June 23,
2010 (collectively, the “Series 2010
Bonds”), one series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
November 29, 2012 (the “Series 2012
Bonds”), three series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
May 30, 2013 (collectively, the “Series
2013 Bonds”), and three series of Subordinate Lien Income Tax Bonds
issued on February 11, 2014 (collectively, the “Series 2014A Bonds”) and
permits the issuance of additional
bonds, from time to time, subject to
certain restrictions. The Series 2008
Bonds, the Series 2010 Bonds, the
Series 2012 Bonds, the Series 2013
Bonds, the Series 2014A Bonds, the
Series 2014B Bonds and any additional bonds issued under the Indenture
are collectively referred to in this
Ordinance as the “Bonds.”
Section 3. Pledge and Covenant to
Maintain Income Tax. So long as
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City pledges the
municipal income taxes of the City
and grants a lien thereon, subordinate to the lien granted in the General Bond Ordinance as security for the

The City Record
General Obligation Bonds of the City
issued and outstanding under the
General Bond Ordinance, to the full
extent required to meet debt charges
payable on the Bonds issued and outstanding, from time to time, under the
Indenture. The City covenants to
appropriate
annually
sufficient
amounts from the income taxes to pay
all debt charges on the General Obligation Bonds, the Bonds outstanding
under the Indenture, any Parity
Obligations and the Unrestricted
Income Tax Obligations (each as
defined in the Indenture). The City
further covenants that so long as any
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City shall not repeal or
amend, or suffer the repeal of, any
ordinance for the levy or collection of
its income taxes in any manner or to
such extent that the City would not be
able to meet its obligations to the
holders of the Bonds.
Section 4. Terms of the Series 2014B
Bonds. The Series 2014B Bonds shall
be issued in fully registered form.
The Series 2014B Bonds may be issued
in one or more series or subseries. The
Series 2014B Bonds may be delivered
only in book-entry form, and if so
delivered, shall be registered in the
name of the Depository (as defined in
the Indenture) or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the
custody of the Depository, and shall
not be transferable or exchangeable
(except for transfer to another Depository or its nominee) without further
action by the City pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture and the Sixth
Supplement identified in Section 7.
The Series 2014B Bonds shall be designated “Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds, Series
2014B” and may contain such further
designation as provided in the Certificate of Award identified below. The
Series 2014B Bonds shall be issued in
one lot as fully registered Series
2014B Bonds in denominations of
$5,000 or any whole multiple thereof.
The Series 2014B Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director
of Finance. The Series 2014B Bonds
shall be signed by the officials of the
City and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture.
The Series 2014B Bonds shall be
dated the date of their issuance and
delivery or such other date specified
in the certificate of award providing
for the final terms of the Series 2014B
Bonds and the sale of the Series 2014B
Bonds in accordance with this Ordinance (the “Certificate of Award”).
The Series 2014B Bonds shall bear
interest from their date until the principal amount is paid at the rate or
rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award, provided that the yield
(determined in accordance with the
arbitrage provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) of
the Series 2014B Bonds shall not
exceed 6.00% per year. Interest on the
Series 2014B Bonds shall be payable
semi-annually on April 1 and October
1, or such other dates specified in the
Certificate of Award (the “Interest
Payment Dates”).
The Series 2014B Bonds shall
mature in the years and principal
amounts set forth in the Certificate of
Award, provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, and (ii) the final
maturity date of the Series 2014B
Bonds shall be no later than August 1,
2036. The Series 2014B Bonds stated to
mature in any year may be issued as

597

35
serial Series 2014B Bonds or as term
Series 2014B Bonds payable prior to
stated maturity pursuant to sinking
fund redemption (the “Term Bonds”).
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Series 2014B
Bonds shall be issued as Term Bonds,
any dates (the “Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund installments rather than at
stated maturity and the amount of
principal to be paid on each Mandatory Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”). If any of the Series 2014B
Bonds are issued as Term Series
2014B Bonds, the Term Bonds shall be
redeemed pursuant to the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements at a redemption price of 100%
of the principal amount redeemed,
plus interest accrued to the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates. The aggregate of the moneys to be deposited with the Trustee
for payment of principal of and interest on any Term Bonds shall include
amounts sufficient to redeem on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates the
principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided in
the Indenture and the Sixth Supplement).
The Series 2014B Bonds may be subject to redemption prior to maturity
by and at the option of the City, in
whole or in part on any date, in whole
multiples of $5,000, on the redemption
dates and at the redemption prices
specified in the Certificate of Award,
plus, in each case, accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that
it is in the best interests of the City
(i) for some or all of the Series 2014B
Bonds not to be callable prior to their
stated maturity, and (ii) for a premium to be payable on the redemption of
any Series 2014B Bonds calculated in
a manner to make the bondholder
whole for the loss of the investment or
calculated as a percentage in excess
of 100% of the principal amount
redeemed.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the City may
have the option to purchase any Bond
which is redeemable by optional
redemption at a purchase price not
less than the redemption price that
would be payable if that Bond were
called for optional redemption on the
date of the proposed purchase. That
election shall be exercised as provided in the Sixth Supplement.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the Series 2014B
Bonds may be secured by a Debt Service Reserve Fund to be held by the
Trustee under the Indenture. The
principal amount of the Series 2014B
Bonds may include provision for funding the Debt Service Reserve Fund
from the proceeds of the Bonds, subject to compliance with applicable
federal tax laws.
Section 5. Sale of Series 2014B
Bonds. The Series 2014B Bonds shall
first be offered for purchase to the
Trustees of the Sinking Fund and, if
not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment

36
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to the purchaser identified in the Certificate of Award (the “Original Purchaser”). The Certificate of Award
shall specify the final terms of the
Series 2014B Bonds in accordance
with law, the provisions of this Ordinance, the written advice of a financial advisor retained under authority
of Section  12 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the Series
2014B Bonds, including: the principal
amount of the Series 2014B Bonds
(which shall not exceed the amount
stated in Section  1), the purchase
price (which shall be not less than
97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal
installments are payable (at stated
maturity or pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), terms and conditions under
which any Series 2014B Bonds may be
redeemed prior to maturity at the
option of the City, the Interest Payment Dates and the date of the Series
2014B Bonds (if different from those
set forth in Section 3) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance to
be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest of
the City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Series 2014B Bonds and to make such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Series 2014B Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the Series
2014B Bonds to be delivered to the
Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take
all steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Series 2014B Bonds. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the City
a bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Series 2014B Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy the
Series 2014B Bonds on terms consistent with this Ordinance and the
Indenture, that are not substantially
adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Bond Purchase
Agreement or amendments to the
Bond Purchase Agreement by the
Director of Finance. It is determined
that the terms of the Series 2014B
Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance
and as may be provided in or pursuant
to the Certificate of Award, the Indenture and the Sixth Supplement, are in
the best interest of the City and in
compliance with all legal requirements.

The City Record
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Series 2014B Bonds shall be applied as
follows:
(a) to the payment of any providers
of any Credit Support Instruments,
the fees and expenses required to be
paid by the City to obtain the Credit
Support Instrument;
(b) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Interest Payment Account in the Debt
Service Fund, the amount, if any,
received by the City upon delivery of
the Series 2014B Bonds as accrued
interest from their dated date to the
date of their delivery to the Original
Purchaser;
(c) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Debt Service Reserve Fund, any
amount identified in the Certificate of
Award as required to be deposited in
the Debt Service Reserve Fund; and
(d) to the Trustee for deposit in the
Project Fund, the balance of the proceeds (including any original issue
premium received from the sale of the
Series 2014B Bonds).
Section 7. Supplemental Indenture.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a supplemental trust indenture
(the “Sixth Supplement”), supplementing the Indenture to provide procedures for the authentication, registration and transfer of the Series
2014B Bonds, redemption of Series
2014B Bonds, payments under any
Credit Support Instrument authorized
by Section 11, application of the proceeds of the Series 2014B Bonds,
defeasance of the Series 2014B Bonds,
and other terms consistent with this
Ordinance and the Certificate of
Award and approved by the Director
of Finance as not substantially
adverse to the City. The Sixth Supplement shall be approved as to form by
the Director of Law. The determination by the Director of Finance that
the provisions of the Sixth Supplement are not substantially adverse to
the City shall be conclusively evidenced by the Director’s signing of
the Sixth Supplement. As appropriate
under the Charter, the Mayor, the
Director of Finance, the Director of
Law, the Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
sign, acknowledge and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, such
documents, certifications and instruments in addition to the Indenture
and Sixth Supplement as may be necessary or appropriate to issue and sell
the Series 2014B Bonds and to consummate the transactions authorized
by this Ordinance.
Section 8. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Series 2014B Bonds for the purpose set
forth in Section 1, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $7,000,000
(the “Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth in a
certificate providing for the final
terms of the Notes and the sale of the
Notes and signed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”). The Notes, if sold as fixed
rate obligations, shall bear interest at
such rate, not exceeding 6.00% per
year, and shall be payable on the date
or dates, as shall be determined by the
Director of Finance of the City in the
Note Certificate of Award; shall be
dated their date of issuance; shall
mature on the date set forth in the
Note Certificate of Award; shall be

598

April 30, 2014
subject to redemption by the City at
any time prior to maturity without
penalty, unless the Director of
Finance, based on the advice of a
financial advisor, determines that it
is in the best interest of the City in
order to enhance the marketability of
the Notes, that the Notes not be
redeemable prior to maturity or that a
premium be paid on their prior
redemption; shall be designated
“Parks and Recreation Facilities
Improvement
Bond
Anticipation
Notes” or as otherwise provided in the
Note Certificate of Award; shall be
issued in such numbers and denominations as may be requested by the
Note Purchaser (hereinafter defined);
and shall be issued in fully registered
form (which may be in a book entry
only system). The provisions of Sections 9.98 to 9.983 of the Revised Code
shall apply to the Notes and pursuant
to that authority and this Ordinance,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award,
based on the written advice of a financial advisor, that the City’s best interests will be served by causing all or a
portion of the Notes to be obligations
bearing interest at variable rates. If
the Director of Finance so determines, then the Director of Finance
shall specify in the Certificate of
Award the method and procedure by
which the variable rate of interest to
be borne by the variable rate Notes
shall be determined; provided that the
variable rate Notes shall not bear
interest at a rate in excess of 25.00%
per year. The Director of Finance is
authorized to enter into agreements
in connection with the delivery of the
variable rate Notes, and from time to
time thereafter so long as the variable rate Notes are outstanding, with
providers of Credit Support Instruments (as defined in Section 11) and
others as may be determined by the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
to be necessary or appropriate to provide for the method of determining
the variable interest rates, permitting
holders the right of tender, providing
for liquidity or credit support for the
payment of the variable rate Notes
upon tender for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment
by the City of any amounts drawn
under the Credit Support Instrument.
The Trustee shall be the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes. The
Notes shall be signed by the officials
of the City and in the manner set forth
in the Indenture. The Notes shall first
be offered for purchase to the
Trustees of the Sinking Fund and, if
not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
at not less than par and accrued interest to one or more firms that have proposed to underwrite the Notes and
have been selected by the Director of
Finance based on an evaluation of the
qualifications of those firms (the
“Note Purchaser”) in the principal
amount set forth in a certificate of
award to be executed by the Director
of Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”). The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund or
funds set forth in the Note Certificate
of Award and used for the purpose for
which the Notes are being issued
under the provisions of this Ordinance.

April 30, 2014
Section 9. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Series 2014B Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or the
Series 2014B Bonds, as the case may
be, and any necessary supplements
and to authorize the use and distribution of each Official Statement and
any supplements. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign on
behalf of the City and in her official
capacity each Official Statement and
any supplements approved by her.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity such
certificates in connection with the
accuracy of each Official Statement
and any supplements as may, in her
judgment, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final” by
the City within the meaning of Securities and Exchange Commission
Rule 15c2-12 the “SEC Rule.” The
Director of Finance is authorized to
contract for services for the production and distribution of preliminary
and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Series 2014B Bonds,
the City agrees, in accordance with,
and as the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Series
2014B Bonds under the SEC Rule, to
provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that
purpose, and thereby to implement
that agreement, including provisions
for enforcement, amendment and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized and directed to prepare, or
cause to be prepared, and to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf of
the City, a continuing disclosure
agreement or certificate, which shall
constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Notes or the Series
2014B Bonds, as the case may be, in
accordance with the SEC Rule. The
performance of that agreement shall
be subject to the availability of funds
and their annual appropriation to
meet costs the City would be required
to incur to perform it. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 10. Federal Tax Considerations. The City covenants that it will
use, and will restrict the use and
investment of, the proceeds of the
Series 2014B Bonds and any Notes in
such manner and to such extent as
may be necessary so that (i)  the
Series 2014B Bonds and any Notes will
not (A) constitute private activity
bonds or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141 or 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of l986, as amended (the
“Code”) or (B) be treated other than

The City Record
as bonds the interest on which is
excluded from gross income under
Section 103 of the Code, and (ii) the
interest on the Series 2014B Bonds
and any Notes will not be an item of
tax preference under Section 57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (i)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Series 2014B Bonds
and any Notes to be and remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (ii) it will not
take or authorize to be taken any
actions that would adversely affect
that exclusion, and (iii) it, or persons
acting for it, will, among other acts of
compliance, (A) apply the proceeds of
the Series 2014B Bonds and any Notes
to the governmental purpose of the
borrowing, (B) restrict the yield on
investment property, (C) make timely
and adequate payments to the federal
government, (D) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports and (E) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property financed with such
proceeds, all in such manner and to
the extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
The Director of Finance or any
other officer of the City having
responsibility for issuance of the
Series 2014B Bonds and any Notes is
hereby authorized (i) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Series 2014B Bonds and
any Notes as the City is permitted to
or required to make or give under the
federal income tax laws, including,
without limitation thereto, any of the
elections available under Section 148
of the Code, for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax treatment or tax status of the
Series 2014B Bonds and any Notes or
interest thereon, or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense
of such compliance, reducing rebate
amounts or payments or penalties or
making payments of special amounts
in lieu of making computations to
determine, or paying, excess earnings
as rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(ii) to take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make
payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and on
behalf of the City, as may be appropriate to assure the intended tax status of the Series 2014B Bonds and any
Notes and (iii) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Series 2014B Bonds
and any Notes, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Series 2014B
Bonds and any Notes, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on the Series
2014B Bonds and any Notes and the
tax status of the Series 2014B Bonds
and any Notes.
Section 11. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,

599

37
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Series
2014B Bonds or any Notes (a “Credit
Support Instrument”). The Director of
Finance may request a rating on the
Series 2014B Bonds or Notes from one
or more nationally recognized rating
organizations, and do any and all
things and take any and all actions
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings
on the Series 2014B Bonds or Notes.
The Director of Finance may enter
into one or more agreements for Credit Support Instruments containing
terms not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance or the Indenture.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Series 2014B Bonds or Notes to the
extent available and otherwise from
any other funds lawfully available
that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 12. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 13. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and any of its
committees and that all deliberations
of this Council that resulted in these
formal actions were held, in meetings
open to the public in compliance with
all legal requirements, including,
without limitation, Section 121.22 of
the Revised Code.
Section 14. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Series 2014B Bonds and the
Notes in order to make them legal,
valid and binding obligations of the
City have happened, been done and
been performed in regular and due
form as required by law; and that no
limitation of indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Series 2014B Bonds or
the Notes. It is further found and
determined, and is represented and
recited, that the provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of the
Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council
have been fully complied with and
this Ordinance was passed in conformity therewith.

38
Section 15. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy of
this Ordinance and of the Certificate
of Award for the Series 2014B Bonds
and any Note Certificate of Award to
the County Fiscal Officer of Cuyahoga County and to secure a receipt
therefore.
Section 16. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is declared to be an
independent section or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other
evidence of legislative intent, it is
declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such section or
part of a section or any provision
thereof, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person
or circumstance, other than those as
to which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 17. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio. Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance shall not apply to the
Series 2014B Bonds or the Notes authorized herein.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding Series 2014B Bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration was
duly received by the City prior to the
passage of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Passed April 21, 2014.
Effective April 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 499-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$14,500,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve facilities for the
discharge of governmental functions
or for services otherwise benefiting
Public Safety, Health and Welfare
and authorizing related matters.

The City Record
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $14,500,000
(the
“Series
2014B
Bonds”)
to
finance the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section  1; and
Whereas, the Series 2014B Bonds
shall be payable from and secured
by income tax revenues of the City
remaining after deposits required
under the General Bond Ordinance
(as defined in Section 2) are made
to the escrow agent for the City’s
general obligation bonds; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Series 2014B
Bonds is at least five years and the
maximum maturity of the Series
2014B Bonds is 15 years, as evidenced by the certificate contained
in File No. 499-14-A; and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Series 2014B Bonds
is necessary to provide funds to pay
the
costs
of
certain
permanent
improvements described in Section 1
that are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City, and as a result,
this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, property, health and safety, and for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed necessary to issue the Series 2014B Bonds
in an aggregate principal amount not
to exceed $14,500,000 for the purpose
of providing funds to improve facilities for the discharge of governmental functions or for services otherwise
benefiting the public safety, health
and welfare, including constructing,
reconstructing,
rehabilitating,
installing, renovating, enlarging and
otherwise improving buildings, structures and other facilities in, of and for
City Hall, police stations, fire stations, emergency medical centers, service stations, waste collection, transfer and disposal facilities, correctional facilities, health facilities, maintenance facilities, kennels, parking
facilities, centers and other facilities,
the provision of necessary fixtures,
furnishings, equipment, information
technology hardware and software,
utilities, site improvements and
appurtenances, and the acquisition of
vehicles, and to pay any capitalized
interest and all expenses incurred in
connection with the issuance of the
securities, including all financing
costs within the meaning of Section
133.01(K) of the Revised Code and
such other costs of the foregoing permanent improvements that may be
financed with the proceeds of securities as permitted by Section 133.15(B)
of the Ohio Revised Code and as otherwise permitted by law.
Section 2. Authority, Security and
Source of Payment. The Series 2014B
Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the
Ohio Constitution, Chapter 133 of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Charter of the
City, and this Ordinance for the purpose stated in Section  1. The Series
2014B Bonds shall be payable from
and secured by the income tax revenues of the City on a basis subordinate to the security given to the General Obligation Bonds of the City

600

April 30, 2014
(“General Obligation Bonds”) under
Ordinance No. 1749-80 passed by the
Council on October 8, 1980, as amended by Ordinance No. 1112-83 passed by
the Council on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed by the Council on June 10, 1996 (Ordinance No.
1749-80, as so amended and as the
same may further be amended from
time to time in accordance with its
provisions, is referred to as the “General Bond Ordinance”). The debt service on the Series 2014B Bonds shall
be payable from income tax collections remaining after depositing with
the escrow agent under the General
Bond Ordinance the amount required
for the payment of debt service on the
City’s General Obligation Bonds
issued and outstanding, from time to
time, under the General Bond Ordinance. The Series 2014B Bonds shall
be issued and secured under the terms
of the Trust Indenture, dated as of
April 1, 2008, between the City and
U.S. Bank National Association, as
trustee (the “Trustee”), as amended
by Section 6.1 of the Second Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated as of
June 1, 2010, between the City and the
Trustee (together, the “Indenture”).
The Indenture currently secures five
series of Subordinate Lien Income
Tax Bonds issued on May 1, 2008 (collectively, the “Series 2008 Bonds”),
four series of Subordinate Lien
Income Tax Bonds issued on June 23,
2010 (collectively, the “Series 2010
Bonds”), one series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
November 29, 2012 (the “Series 2012
Bonds”), three series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
May 30, 2013 (collectively, the “Series
2013 Bonds”), and three series of Subordinate Lien Income Tax Bonds
issued on February 11, 2014 (collectively, the “Series 2014A Bonds”) and
permits the issuance of additional
bonds, from time to time, subject to
certain restrictions. The Series 2008
Bonds, the Series 2010 Bonds, the
Series 2012 Bonds, the Series 2013
Bonds, the Series 2014A Bonds, the
Series 2014B Bonds and any additional bonds issued under the Indenture
are collectively referred to in this
Ordinance as the “Bonds.”
Section 3. Pledge and Covenant to
Maintain Income Tax. So long as
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City pledges the
municipal income taxes of the City
and grants a lien thereon, subordinate to the lien granted in the General Bond Ordinance as security for the
General Obligation Bonds of the City
issued and outstanding under the
General Bond Ordinance, to the full
extent required to meet debt charges
payable on the Bonds issued and outstanding, from time to time, under the
Indenture. The City covenants to
appropriate
annually
sufficient
amounts from the income taxes to pay
all debt charges on the General Obligation Bonds, the Bonds outstanding
under the Indenture, any Parity
Obligations and the Unrestricted
Income Tax Obligations (each as
defined in the Indenture). The City
further covenants that so long as any
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City shall not repeal or
amend, or suffer the repeal of, any
ordinance for the levy or collection of
its income taxes in any manner or to
such extent that the City would not be
able to meet its obligations to the
holders of the Bonds.

April 30, 2014
Section 4. Terms of the Series 2014B
Bonds. The Series 2014B Bonds shall
be issued in fully registered form.
The Series 2014B Bonds may be issued
in one or more series or subseries. The
Series 2014B Bonds may be delivered
only in book-entry form, and if so
delivered, shall be registered in the
name of the Depository (as defined in
the Indenture) or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the
custody of the Depository, and shall
not be transferable or exchangeable
(except for transfer to another Depository or its nominee) without further
action by the City pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture and the Sixth
Supplement identified in Section 7.
The Series 2014B Bonds shall be designated “Public Facilities Improvement Bonds, Series 2014B” and may
contain such further designation as
provided in the Certificate of Award
identified below. The Series 2014B
Bonds shall be issued in one lot as
fully registered Series 2014B Bonds in
denominations of $5,000 or any whole
multiple thereof. The Series 2014B
Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director of Finance. The
Series 2014B Bonds shall be signed by
the officials of the City and in the
manner set forth in the Indenture.
The Series 2014B Bonds shall be
dated the date of their issuance and
delivery or such other date specified
in the certificate of award providing
for the final terms of the Series 2014B
Bonds and the sale of the Series 2014B
Bonds in accordance with this Ordinance (the “Certificate of Award”).
The Series 2014B Bonds shall bear
interest from their date until the principal amount is paid at the rate or
rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award, provided that the yield
(determined in accordance with the
arbitrage provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) of
the Series 2014B Bonds shall not
exceed 6.00% per year. Interest on the
Series 2014B Bonds shall be payable
semi-annually on April 1 and October
1, or such other dates specified in the
Certificate of Award (the “Interest
Payment Dates”).
The Series 2014B Bonds shall
mature in the years and principal
amounts set forth in the Certificate of
Award, provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, and (ii) the final
maturity date of the Series 2014B
Bonds shall be no later than August 1,
2030. The Series 2014B Bonds stated to
mature in any year may be issued as
serial Series 2014B Bonds or as term
Series 2014B Bonds payable prior to
stated maturity pursuant to sinking
fund redemption (the “Term Bonds”).
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Series 2014B
Bonds shall be issued as Term Bonds,
any dates (the “Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund installments rather than at
stated maturity and the amount of
principal to be paid on each Mandatory Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”). If any of the Series 2014B
Bonds are issued as Term Series
2014B Bonds, the Term Bonds shall be
redeemed pursuant to the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements at a redemption price of 100%
of the principal amount redeemed,

The City Record
plus interest accrued to the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates. The aggregate of the moneys to be deposited with the Trustee
for payment of principal of and interest on any Term Bonds shall include
amounts sufficient to redeem on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates the
principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided in
the Indenture and the Sixth Supplement).
The Series 2014B Bonds may be subject to redemption prior to maturity
by and at the option of the City, in
whole or in part on any date, in whole
multiples of $5,000, on the redemption
dates and at the redemption prices
specified in the Certificate of Award,
plus, in each case, accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that
it is in the best interests of the City
(i) for some or all of the Series 2014B
Bonds not to be callable prior to their
stated maturity, and (ii) for a premium to be payable on the redemption of
any Series 2014B Bonds calculated in
a manner to make the bondholder
whole for the loss of the investment or
calculated as a percentage in excess
of 100% of the principal amount
redeemed.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the City may
have the option to purchase any Bond
which is redeemable by optional
redemption at a purchase price not
less than the redemption price that
would be payable if that Bond were
called for optional redemption on the
date of the proposed purchase. That
election shall be exercised as provided in the Sixth Supplement.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the Series 2014B
Bonds may be secured by a Debt Service Reserve Fund to be held by the
Trustee under the Indenture. The
principal amount of the Series 2014B
Bonds may include provision for funding the Debt Service Reserve Fund
from the proceeds of the Bonds, subject to compliance with applicable
federal tax laws.
Section 5. Sale of Series 2014B
Bonds. The Series 2014B Bonds shall
first be offered for purchase to the
Trustees of the Sinking Fund and, if
not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to the purchaser identified in the Certificate of Award (the “Original Purchaser”). The Certificate of Award
shall specify the final terms of the
Series 2014B Bonds in accordance
with law, the provisions of this Ordinance, the written advice of a financial advisor retained under authority
of Section  12 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the Series
2014B Bonds, including: the principal
amount of the Series 2014B Bonds
(which shall not exceed the amount
stated in Section  1), the purchase
price (which shall be not less than
97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal
installments are payable (at stated
maturity or pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), terms and conditions under

601

39
which any Series 2014B Bonds may be
redeemed prior to maturity at the
option of the City, the Interest Payment Dates and the date of the Series
2014B Bonds (if different from those
set forth in Section 3) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance to
be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest of
the City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Series 2014B Bonds and to make such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Series 2014B Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the Series
2014B Bonds to be delivered to the
Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take
all steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Series 2014B Bonds. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the City
a bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Series 2014B Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy the
Series 2014B Bonds on terms consistent with this Ordinance and the
Indenture, that are not substantially
adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Bond Purchase
Agreement or amendments to the
Bond Purchase Agreement by the
Director of Finance. It is determined
that the terms of the Series 2014B
Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance
and as may be provided in or pursuant
to the Certificate of Award, the Indenture and the Sixth Supplement, are in
the best interest of the City and in
compliance with all legal requirements.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Series 2014B Bonds shall be applied as
follows:
(a) to the payment of any providers
of any Credit Support Instruments,
the fees and expenses required to be
paid by the City to obtain the Credit
Support Instrument;
(b) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Interest Payment Account in the Debt
Service Fund, the amount, if any,
received by the City upon delivery of
the Series 2014B Bonds as accrued
interest from their dated date to the
date of their delivery to the Original
Purchaser;
(c) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Debt Service Reserve Fund, any
amount identified in the Certificate of
Award as required to be deposited in
the Debt Service Reserve Fund; and
(d) to the Trustee for deposit in the
Project Fund, the balance of the proceeds (including any original issue

40
premium received from the sale of the
Series 2014B Bonds).
Section 7. Supplemental Indenture.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a supplemental trust indenture
(the “Sixth Supplement”), supplementing the Indenture to provide procedures for the authentication, registration and transfer of the Series
2014B Bonds, redemption of Series
2014B Bonds, payments under any
Credit Support Instrument authorized
by Section 11, application of the proceeds of the Series 2014B Bonds,
defeasance of the Series 2014B Bonds,
and other terms consistent with this
Ordinance and the Certificate of
Award and approved by the Director
of Finance as not substantially
adverse to the City. The Sixth Supplement shall be approved as to form by
the Director of Law. The determination by the Director of Finance that
the provisions of the Sixth Supplement are not substantially adverse to
the City shall be conclusively evidenced by the Director’s signing of
the Sixth Supplement. As appropriate
under the Charter, the Mayor, the
Director of Finance, the Director of
Law, the Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
sign, acknowledge and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, such
documents, certifications and instruments in addition to the Indenture
and Sixth Supplement as may be necessary or appropriate to issue and sell
the Series 2014B Bonds and to consummate the transactions authorized
by this Ordinance.
Section 8. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Series 2014B Bonds for the purpose set
forth in Section 1, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $14,500,000
(the “Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth in a
certificate providing for the final
terms of the Notes and the sale of the
Notes and signed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”). The Notes, if sold as fixed
rate obligations, shall bear interest at
such rate, not exceeding 6.00% per
year, and shall be payable on the date
or dates, as shall be determined by the
Director of Finance of the City in the
Note Certificate of Award; shall be
dated their date of issuance; shall
mature on the date set forth in the
Note Certificate of Award; shall be
subject to redemption by the City at
any time prior to maturity without
penalty, unless the Director of
Finance, based on the advice of a
financial advisor, determines that it
is in the best interest of the City in
order to enhance the marketability of
the Notes, that the Notes not be
redeemable prior to maturity or that a
premium be paid on their prior
redemption; shall be designated “Public Facilities Improvement Bond
Anticipation Notes” or as otherwise
provided in the Note Certificate of
Award; shall be issued in such numbers and denominations as may be
requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form (which
may be in a book entry only system).
The provisions of Sections 9.98 to 9.983
of the Revised Code shall apply to the
Notes and pursuant to that authority
and this Ordinance, the Director of

The City Record
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, that the
City’s best interests will be served by
causing all or a portion of the Notes to
be obligations bearing interest at
variable rates. If the Director of
Finance so determines, then the
Director of Finance shall specify in
the Certificate of Award the method
and procedure by which the variable
rate of interest to be borne by the variable rate Notes shall be determined;
provided that the variable rate Notes
shall not bear interest at a rate in
excess of 25.00% per year. The Director of Finance is authorized to enter
into agreements in connection with
the delivery of the variable rate
Notes, and from time to time thereafter so long as the variable rate
Notes are outstanding, with providers
of Credit Support Instruments (as
defined in Section 11) and others as
may be determined by the Director of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Notes upon tender
for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment by the City
of any amounts drawn under the Credit Support Instrument. The Trustee
shall be the authenticating agent,
registrar, transfer agent and paying
agent for the Notes. The Notes shall
be signed by the officials of the City
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture. The Notes shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold at not less
than par and accrued interest to one
or more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note Purchaser”) in the principal amount set
forth in a certificate of award to be
executed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
The proceeds of such sale shall be
paid into the proper fund or funds set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 9. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Series 2014B Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or the
Series 2014B Bonds, as the case may
be, and any necessary supplements
and to authorize the use and distribution of each Official Statement and
any supplements. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign on
behalf of the City and in her official
capacity each Official Statement and
any supplements approved by her.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity such
certificates in connection with the
accuracy of each Official Statement

602

April 30, 2014
and any supplements as may, in her
judgment, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final” by
the City within the meaning of Securities and Exchange Commission
Rule 15c2-12 the “SEC Rule.” The
Director of Finance is authorized to
contract for services for the production and distribution of preliminary
and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Series 2014B Bonds,
the City agrees, in accordance with,
and as the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Series
2014B Bonds under the SEC Rule, to
provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that
purpose, and thereby to implement
that agreement, including provisions
for enforcement, amendment and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized and directed to prepare, or
cause to be prepared, and to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf of
the City, a continuing disclosure
agreement or certificate, which shall
constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Notes or the Series
2014B Bonds, as the case may be, in
accordance with the SEC Rule. The
performance of that agreement shall
be subject to the availability of funds
and their annual appropriation to
meet costs the City would be required
to incur to perform it. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 10. Federal Tax Considerations. The City covenants that it will
use, and will restrict the use and
investment of, the proceeds of the
Series 2014B Bonds and any Notes in
such manner and to such extent as
may be necessary so that (i)  the
Series 2014B Bonds and any Notes will
not (A) constitute private activity
bonds or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141 or 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of l986, as amended (the
“Code”) or (B) be treated other than
as bonds the interest on which is
excluded from gross income under
Section 103 of the Code, and (ii) the
interest on the Series 2014B Bonds
and any Notes will not be an item of
tax preference under Section 57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (i)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Series 2014B Bonds
and any Notes to be and remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (ii) it will not
take or authorize to be taken any
actions that would adversely affect
that exclusion, and (iii) it, or persons
acting for it, will, among other acts of
compliance, (A) apply the proceeds of
the Series 2014B Bonds and any Notes
to the governmental purpose of the
borrowing, (B) restrict the yield on
investment property, (C) make timely
and adequate payments to the federal

April 30, 2014
government, (D) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports and (E) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property financed with such
proceeds, all in such manner and to
the extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
The Director of Finance or any
other officer of the City having
responsibility for issuance of the
Series 2014B Bonds and any Notes is
hereby authorized (i) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Series 2014B Bonds and
any Notes as the City is permitted to
or required to make or give under the
federal income tax laws, including,
without limitation thereto, any of the
elections available under Section 148
of the Code, for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax treatment or tax status of the
Series 2014B Bonds and any Notes or
interest thereon, or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense
of such compliance, reducing rebate
amounts or payments or penalties or
making payments of special amounts
in lieu of making computations to
determine, or paying, excess earnings
as rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(ii) to take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make
payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and on
behalf of the City, as may be appropriate to assure the intended tax status of the Series 2014B Bonds and any
Notes and (iii) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Series 2014B Bonds
and any Notes, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Series 2014B
Bonds and any Notes, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on the Series
2014B Bonds and any Notes and the
tax status of the Series 2014B Bonds
and any Notes.
Section 11. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Series
2014B Bonds or any Notes (a “Credit
Support Instrument”). The Director of
Finance may request a rating on the
Series 2014B Bonds or Notes from one
or more nationally recognized rating
organizations, and do any and all
things and take any and all actions
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings
on the Series 2014B Bonds or Notes.
The Director of Finance may enter
into one or more agreements for Credit Support Instruments containing
terms not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance or the Indenture.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support

The City Record
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Series 2014B Bonds or Notes to the
extent available and otherwise from
any other funds lawfully available
that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 12. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 13. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and any of its
committees and that all deliberations
of this Council that resulted in these
formal actions were held, in meetings
open to the public in compliance with
all legal requirements, including,
without limitation, Section 121.22 of
the Revised Code.
Section 14. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Series 2014B Bonds and the
Notes in order to make them legal,
valid and binding obligations of the
City have happened, been done and
been performed in regular and due
form as required by law; and that no
limitation of indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Series 2014B Bonds or
the Notes. It is further found and
determined, and is represented and
recited, that the provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of the
Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council
have been fully complied with and
this Ordinance was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 15. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy of
this Ordinance and of the Certificate
of Award for the Series 2014B Bonds
and any Note Certificate of Award to
the County Fiscal Officer of Cuyahoga County and to secure a receipt
therefore.
Section 16. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is declared to be an
independent section or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other
evidence of legislative intent, it is
declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such section or
part of a section or any provision
thereof, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remaining sections or

603

41
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person
or circumstance, other than those as
to which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 17. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio. Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance shall not apply to the
Series 2014B Bonds or the Notes authorized herein.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding Series 2014B Bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration was
duly received by the City prior to the
passage of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Passed April 21, 2014.
Effective April 22, 2014.

Ord. No. 535-14.
By Council Member Keane.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Saint Joseph Academy
Jaguar Jog, on May 26, 2014, sponsored by the Hermes Sports & Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the St. Joseph Academy Jaguar Jog,
sponsored by the Hermes Sports &
Events; start: Saint Joseph Academy;
Rocky River north to Riverside Drive
into City of Lakewood; Rocky River
south to St. Joseph Academy—finish
line, provided that the applicant sponsor shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined

The City Record

42
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order to
protect the participants in the event.
Said permit shall further provide that
the City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability
resulting from the issuance of the
same, to the extent and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 21, 2014.
Effective April 22, 2014.

April 30, 2014

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Tuesday, April 29, 2014
9:30 a.m.

Monday, April 28, 2014
9:30 a.m.

Development, Planning and Sustainability
Committee:
Present:
Brancatelli, Chair; Cleveland, Vice
Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, Dow,
Pruitt, Zone.

Municipal Services & Properties
Committee: Present: K. Johnson,
Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson,
Reed.
2:30 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane,
Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.

1:30 p.m.
Utilities
Committee:
Present:
Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli,
Cummins,
Keane,
Mitchell, Polensek.
Wednesday, April 30, 2014
10:00 a.m.
Safety Committee: Present in Safety: Zone, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Dow, Keane, Polensek. Authorized
Absence: Cimperman, K. Johnson.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

9-1-1 Service
Transfer the responsibility of answering cellular 9-1-1 calls made within the City
of Cleveland from the County to the City (O 298-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Agreements
County’s Sheriff’s Department take over booking, housing and other related services for
City Prisoners (O 299-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 578
Transfer the responsibility of answering cellular 9-1-1 calls made within the City
of Cleveland from the County to the City (O 298-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Avalon Road, 1643, (Ward 10) — Daryl Williams & Charles Scott, owners — appeal resolved
on 4/23/14 (Doc. A-30-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Baxter Avenue, 6734, (Ward 13) — Denis J. Bergeron IV, owner — appeal resolved on 4/23/14
(Doc. A-59-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Colfax Road, 7810, (Ward 5) — DeWayne Cooper, owner — appeal adopted on 4/23/14
(Doc. A-65-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 118th Street, 1569Buildings A, B, (Ward 9) — University Place Dev. Co., LP, owner —
appeal resolved on 4/23/14 (Doc. A-40-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 118th Street, 1569Buildings A, B, C, (Ward 9) — University Place Dev. Co., LP, owner —
appeal resolved on 4/23/14 (Doc. A-52-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 118th Street, 1569Buildings A, B, C, D, (Ward 9) — University Place Dev. Co., LP,
owner — appeal resolved on 4/23/14 (Doc. A-36-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 118th Street, 1569Buildings A, B, C, D, E, (Ward 9) — University Place Dev. Co., LP,
owner — appeal resolved on 4/23/14 (Doc. A-42-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 126th Street, 925, (Ward 10) — Lei Wei, owner — appeal resolved on 4/23/14
(Doc. A-63-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 130th Street, 2825, (Ward 6) — Shaker Square Towers, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on
4/23/14 (Doc. A-33-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grandview Avenue, 10610, (Ward 6) — Yvette Attaway, owner — appeal adopted on
4/23/14 (Doc. A-34-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Heidtman Parkway, 4700, (Ward 12) — GLSD Steel Warehouse, owner — appeal adopted on
4/23/14 (Doc. A-55-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Herman Avenue, 6609, (Ward 15) — John H. Deleva, owner — appeal adopted on 4/23/14
(Doc. A-293-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lampson Road, 1856, (Ward 10) — Khalil Abdur Rahman, owner — appeal adopted on 4/23/14
(Doc. A-31-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Roland Avenue, 6100, (Ward 5) — Roland Realty Co., owner — appeal adopted on 4/23/14
(Doc. A-32-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 17877, (Ward 10) — SunPace Property, LLC, owner — appeal adopted
on 4/23/14 (Doc. A-18-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Track Road, 5000, (Ward 5) — Farid Nagib, owner — no action on 4/23/14 (Doc. A-62-14) . . . . . .
Wainfleet Avenue, 13104, (Ward 16) — SRMOF II 2012-1 Trust, U.S. Bank Trust National
Association, owner — appeal resolved on 4/23/14 (Doc. A-61-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 148th Street, 4537, (Ward 16) — Robert Cangami, owner — appeal postponed to 5/07/14
on 4/23/14 (Doc. A-58-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

604

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 586
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 586
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 586
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585

April 30, 2014

The City Record

43

West 56th Street, 3438, (Ward 15) — George Caraman, owner — appeal adopted on
4/23/14 (Doc. A-28-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
West 85th Street, 2056, (Ward 15) — Joseph Assily, owner — appeal resolved on
4/23/14 (Doc. A-56-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584
Woodbridge Avenue, 3333, (Ward 14) — James A. Wright III, owner — appeal resolved
on 4/23/14 (Doc. A-57-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Insurance, fire and extended coverage — per Ord. 199-13 to Hylant Group — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 172-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 578

Board of Control — Community Development Department
East 86th Street, 2265 (Ward 6) — PPN 119-32-001 — Evelyn Wilder (BOC Res. 178-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 579
Sylvia Avenue, 14309 (Ward 8) — PPN 112-24-080 — Richard M. Easley (BOC Res. 179-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 580
West 59th Street, 3452 (Ward 14) — PPN 016-16-052 — Lourdes M. Rosado (BOC Res. 180-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 580

Board of Control — Concession Agreement
Valet parking service at Chester Parking Lot — Dazzle the District at Cleveland Playhouse
Square on May 2 — Siberian Tiger, LLC, dba VIP Valet Parking per C.O. Sec. 183.04
(BOC Res. 177-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 579

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East 86th Street, 2265 (Ward 6) — PPN 119-32-001 — Evelyn Wilder (BOC Res. 178-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 579
Sylvia Avenue, 14309 (Ward 8) — PPN 112-24-080 — Richard M. Easley (BOC Res. 179-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 580
West 59th Street, 3452 (Ward 14) — PPN 016-16-052 — Lourdes M. Rosado (BOC Res. 180-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 580

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Environmental analytical laboratory services — consent to CWM Environmental, Inc.
acquisition of Precision Analytical, Inc. — Contract #PS2010*106 per BOC Res. 98-10
(BOC Res. 176-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 579

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Insurance, fire and extended coverage -per Ord. 199-13 to Hylant Group — Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 172-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 578
Professional customer service systems support — modify Contract #PS2012*010 per
BOC Res. 531-11 — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 173-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 578

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Transmission Water Main Renewal Phase I — per Ord. 1052-12 to Terrace Construction
Company, Inc. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 174-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 579

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Insurance, fire and extended coverage — per Ord. 199-13 to Hylant Group — Division
of Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 172-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeside Avenue, 1201 skylight restoration and partial roof replacement — per Ord. 262-12 —
all bids rejected — Division of Water (BOC Res. 175-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professional customer service systems support — modify Contract #PS2012*010 per
BOC Res. 531-11 — Division of Water (BOC Res. 173-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transmission Water Main Renewal Phase I — per Ord. 1052-12 to Terrace Construction
Company, Inc. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 174-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 578
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 579
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 578
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 579

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Valet parking service at Chester Parking Lot — Dazzle the District at Cleveland Playhouse
Square on May 2 — Siberian Tiger, LLC, dba VIP Valet Parking per C.O. Sec. 183.04
(BOC Res. 177-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 579

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Environmental analytical laboratory services — consent to CWM Environmental, Inc.
acquisition of Precision Analytical, Inc. — Contract #PS2010*106 per BOC Res. 98-10 —
Department of Port Control (BOC Res. 176-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 579

Board of Control — Water Division
Lakeside Avenue, 1201 skylight restoration and partial roof replacement — per Ord. 262-12 —
all bids rejected — Department of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 175-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 579

605

The City Record

44

April 30, 2014

Professional customer service systems support — modify Contract #PS2012*010 per
BOC Res. 531-11 — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 173-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 578
Transmission Water Main Renewal Phase I — per Ord. 1052-12 to Terrace Construction
Company, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 174-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 579

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Detroit Avenue, 5209, (Ward 15) — Westside Ministries, owner, and The Centers for
Families and Children, tenant — appeal granted and adopted on 4/28/14 (Cal. 14-22). . . . . .
East 131st Street, 4209, (Ward 1) — Winston House, owner — appeal withdrawn on 4/28/14
(Cal. 14-48) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 30th Street, 2390, (Ward 5) — Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority, owner —
appeal granted and adopted on 4/28/14 (Cal. 14-46) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 16917, (Ward 10) — John Lewis, owner — appeal postponed to 5/19/14
on 4/28/14 (Cal. 14-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fischer Road, 16801, (Ward 17) — Anne Agozzino, owner — appeal heard on 4/28/14
(Cal. 14-51) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hague Avenue, 7202, (Ward 15) — Shpresa Deda, owner — appeal heard on 5/12/14 (Cal. 14-20)
Magnolia Drive, 11125, (Ward 9) — Cleveland Music School Settlement, owner — appeal heard
on 4/28/14 (Cal. 14-49) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Avenue, 310-320, (Ward 3) — LR 310 Prospect Investor, LLC, property owner —
appeal heard on 4/28/14 (Cal. 14-50) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 10th Street, 2438, (Ward 3) — Peter G. Kochera, owner — appeal reinstated and heard
on 5/12/14 (Cal. 14-41) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 35th Street, 3226, (Ward 14) — Leah Burchnell, owner — appeal heard on 5/12/14
(Cal. 14-43) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 65th Street, 1882, (Ward 15) — David Harper, owner — appeal heard on 4/28/14
(Cal. 14-47) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Superior Avenue, 10507, (Ward 9) — Ali Mohammed, owner — appeal to be heard on 5/12/14
(Cal. 14-58) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583
West 31st Street, 2169, (Ward 3) — Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization, owner, and Jason
Brooks, prospective purchaser — appeal to be heard on 5/12/14 (Cal. 14-56) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583

Bonds
Bridges and Roadway Improvement Bonds (Series 2014B) — $21,200,000 — Finance Department
(O 497-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds (Series 2014B) — $7,000,000 — Finance
Department (O 498-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds (Series 2014B) — $14,500,000 — Finance
Department (O 499-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Power System Revenue Bonds — refunding — Cleveland Public Power Division —
Finance Department (O 572-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 593
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 570

Capital Projects
Citywide Tree Damaged Sidewalk Program — professional service — contract (O 563-14) . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon — permit — May 18th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (Ward(s) 03,
15) (O 565-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Saint Joseph Academy Jaguar Jog — permit — May 26 — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 17)
(O 535-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 67th St., — encroach into right-of-way — frost slab, pier shoring, and an entrance
doorway — Near West Theater, Inc. (Ward 15) (O 301-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 568
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

City Council
Dreyer, Allan — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — April 22 — 24 (F 552-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

City of Cleveland Bids
Cable Carts and Related Equipment — Department of Public Works — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 790-13 — bid due May 16, 2014 (advertised 4/23/2014
and 4/30/2014). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Constructing and Installing Replacement Sewers and Repairing and Rehabilitation of
Existing Sewers (Re-bid) — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water
Pollution Control — per Ord. 1105-13 — bid due May 22, 2014 (advertised 4/30/2014
and 5/7/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Direct Haul of Municipal Solid Waste — Department of Public Works — Division
of Waste Collection and Disposal — per Ord. 1499-13 — bid due May 16, 2014 (advertised
4/23/2014 and 4/30/2014). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Employee Uniforms (Re-bid) — Department of Port Control — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due
May 22, 2014 (advertised 4/30/2014 and 5/7/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

606

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 588

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 589

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 588
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 589

April 30, 2014

The City Record

45

EMS Inventory Management Systems — Department of Public Safety — Division of Emergency
Medical Service — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due May 15, 2014 (advertised 4/23/2014 and
4/30/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
International Truck Parts and Labor — Department of Public Works — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 — bid due May 23, 2014 (advertised 4/30/2014
and 5/7/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Maintenance of Uninterruptible Power Supply Systems, Appurtenances, and Specialized
Batteries — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 675-13 —
bid due May 28, 2014 (advertised 4/30/2014 and 5/7/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pool Chemicals — Department of Public Works — Division of Recreation — per C.O. Sec.
181.101 — bid due May 15, 2014 (advertised 4/23/2014 and 4/30/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchase Various Steering Gear and Related Parts — Department of Public Works — Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 1330-A-10 — bid due May 16, 2014 (advertised
4/23/2014 and 4/30/2014). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Regular and Synthetic Lubricants — Department of Public Works — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 — bid due May 23, 2014 (advertised 4/30/2014
and 5/7/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicle Exhaust System Upgrade — Department of Public Safety — Division of Fire —
per Ord. 1089-13 — bid due May 23, 2014 (advertised 4/30/2014 and 5/7/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 588

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 589

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 589
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 588

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 588

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 589
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 589

Clerk Of Council
Dreyer, Allan — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — April 22 — 24 (F 552-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (CHIA)
Apogee building automation system (maintain, repair, and expand the existing) —
contracts — Siemens Industry, Inc. (O 560-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566

Cleveland Public Power (CPP)
Energy Adjustment Charge — amend Section 523.21 — amend Ord. 216-12 — Utilities
Department (O 567-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 569
Public Power System Revenue Bonds — refunding — Finance Department (O 572-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 570

Codified Ordinances
Energy Adjustment Charge — amend Section 523.21 — amend Ord. 216-12 — Cleveland Public
Power — Utilities Department (O 567-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 569

Collective Bargaining Agreements
Ohio Nurses Association (ONA) Local 85 — approve collective bargaining agreement —
Finance Department — Human Resources Department (O 464-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 591

Communications
Dreyer, Allan — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — April 22 — 24 (F 552-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565
Resident Utilization Report — April 2014 Bi — Monthly Report — Equal Opportunity Office
(F 553-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Condolences
Lewis, Oberta Lavada (R 573-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565
Miller, Hattie Belle (Oliver) (R 574-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565
Simmons, Mary Louise (Hart) (R 575-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Congratulations
Friendly Inn Settlement, Inc. — 140th Anniversary (R 576-14)
Harris, Dorothy Marie (R 578-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
James, Loretha (R 577-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marinucci, Joseph A. (R 579-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

565
566
566
566

Contracts
Apogee building automation system (maintain, repair, and expand the existing) — Siemens
Industry, Inc. — CHIA (O 560-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Citywide Tree Damaged Sidewalk Program — professional service — Capital Projects Office
(O 563-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Core Information Technology Activities — professional services (O 562-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
County’s Sheriff’s Department take over booking, housing and other related services for
City Prisoners (O 299-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Medifax-EDI, LLC — benefit eligibility — EMS — Finance Department — Port Control
Department (O 557-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

607

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 568
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 568
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 578
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566

The City Record

46

April 30, 2014

Medifax-EDI, LLC — electronic medical claims submissions — EMS — Finance Department —
Port Control Department (O 558-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
Solid waste, transfer and disposal of — Waste Collection and Disposal Division — Works
Department (O 568-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 569
Transfer the responsibility of answering cellular 9-1-1 calls made within the City
of Cleveland from the County to the City (O 298-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Cuyahoga County
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program, 2013 — Cuyahoga County Criminal Justice Service
Agency — Law Department (O 263-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
County’s Sheriff’s Department take over booking, housing and other related services for
City Prisoners (O 299-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Emergency Preparedness Grant Program, 2014-15 — Cuyahoga County Board of Health —
Grants (O 559-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transfer the responsibility of answering cellular 9-1-1 calls made within the City
of Cleveland from the County to the City (O 298-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 578
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Emergency Medical Service Division (EMS)
Medifax-EDI, LLC — contract — benefit eligibility — Finance Department — Port
Control Department (O 557-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
Medifax-EDI, LLC — contracts — electronic medical claims submissions — Finance
Department — Port Control Department (O 558-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566

Encroachments
West 67th St., — right-of-way — frost slab, pier shoring, and an entrance doorway — Near
West Theater, Inc. — Capital Projects Office (Ward 15) (O 301-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Finance Department
Bridges and Roadway Improvement Bonds (Series 2014B) — $21,200,000 (O 497-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 593
Medifax-EDI, LLC — contract — benefit eligibility — EMS — Port Control Department (O 557-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
Medifax-EDI, LLC — contracts — electronic medical claims submissions — EMS — Port Control
Department (O 558-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
Ohio Nurses Association (ONA) Local 85 — approve collective bargaining agreement — Human
Resources Department (O 464-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 591
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds (Series 2014B) — $7,000,000 (O 498-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds (Series 2014B) — $14,500,000 (O 499-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600
Public Power System Revenue Bonds — refunding — Cleveland Public Power Division
(O 572-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 570
Salary and wage schedules — Sections 33, 36 and 42 — amend Ord. 385-14 — Human Resources
Department (O 495-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 591

Grants
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program, 2013 — Cuyahoga County Criminal Justice Service
Agency — Law Department (O 263-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Emergency Preparedness Grant Program, 2014-15 — Cuyahoga County Board of Health
(O 559-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566

Health Department
Emergency Preparedness Grant Program, 2014-15 — Cuyahoga County Board of Health —
Grants (O 559-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566

Human Resources Department
Ohio Nurses Association (ONA) Local 85 — approve collective bargaining agreement —
Finance Department (O 464-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 591
Salary and wage schedules — Sections 33, 36 and 42 — amend Ord. 385-14 — Finance
Department (O 495-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 591

Law Department
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program, 2013 — Cuyahoga County Criminal Justice Service
Agency (O 263-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Lease Agreement
Harbor West Docks, and three sites at North Coast Harbor — Port Control Department (O 561-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 567

608

April 30, 2014

The City Record

47

Liquor Permits
Denison Ave., 9401-03 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 11) (F 556-14) . . . . . . . .
Detroit Ave., 4423 — objection to issuance (Ward 03) (R 534-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 11311 — new application (Ward 06) (F 554-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fleet Ave., 5222 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 69-14
(Ward 12) (R 570-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fleet Ave., 6506 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 174-14
(Ward 12) (R 571-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Linn Dr., 951 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 09) (F 555-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Memphis Ave., 6101 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 13) (R 538-14) . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 5510 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 07) (R 566-14) . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave., 7017-19 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1064-13 (Ward 07)
(R 569-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 589
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

577
565
589
577

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577

Equal Opportunity Office (OEO)
Resident Utilization Report — April 2014 Bi — Monthly Report (F 553-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Permits
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon — May 18th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (Ward(s) 03, 15) (O 565-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576
Saint Joseph Academy Jaguar Jog — May 26 — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 17) (O 535-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
West 67th St., — encroach into right-of-way — frost slab, pier shoring, and an entrance
doorway — Near West Theater, Inc. — Capital Projects Office (Ward 15) (O 301-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Police Division
Transfer the responsibility of answering cellular 9-1-1 calls made within the City
of Cleveland from the County to the City (O 298-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Port Control Department
Apogee building automation system (maintain, repair, and expand the existing) —
contracts — Siemens Industry, Inc. — CHIA (O 560-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Core Information Technology Activities — professional services — contracts (O 562-14). . . . . .
Harbor West Docks, and three sites at North Coast Harbor — lease agreements (O 561-14) . . . .
Medifax-EDI, LLC — contract — benefit eligibility — EMS — Finance Department (O 557-14).
Medifax-EDI, LLC — contracts — electronic medical claims submissions — EMS — Finance
Department (O 558-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

566
568
567
566

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566

Professional Services
Citywide Tree Damaged Sidewalk Program — contract — Capital Projects Office (O 563-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 568
Core Information Technology Activities — contracts (O 562-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 568

Public Improvements
Apogee building automation system (maintain, repair, and expand the existing) —
contracts — Siemens Industry, Inc. — CHIA (O 560-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
Citywide Tree Damaged Sidewalk Program — professional service — contract — Capital
Projects Office (O 563-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 568

Public Works
Solid waste, transfer and disposal of — Waste Collection and Disposal Division (O 568-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 569

Races
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon — permit — May 18th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (Ward(s) 03,
15) (O 565-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576
Saint Joseph Academy Jaguar Jog — permit — May 26 — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 17)
(O 535-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603

Recognition
Drummer, Jr., Lawrence (R 580-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
Greater Bethel A.M.E. Church — 2014 Youngstown District Conference (R 582-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
Pro Football Hall of Fame Fan Fest (R 581-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566

Reports
Resident Utilization Report — April 2014 Bi — Monthly Report — Equal Opportunity Office
(F 553-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

609

The City Record

48

April 30, 2014

Safety Department
County’s Sheriff’s Department take over booking, housing and other related services for
City Prisoners (O 299-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 578
Transfer the responsibility of answering cellular 9-1-1 calls made within the City
of Cleveland from the County to the City (O 298-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Salaries
Ohio Nurses Association (ONA) Local 85 — approve collective bargaining agreement —
Finance Department — Human Resources Department (O 464-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 591
Salary and wage schedules — Sections 33, 36 and 42 — amend Ord. 385-14 — Finance
Department — Human Resources Department (O 495-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 591

Utilities Department
Energy Adjustment Charge — amend Section 523.21 — amend Ord. 216-12 — Cleveland Public
Power (O 567-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 569
Public Power System Revenue Bonds — refunding — Cleveland Public Power Division —
Finance Department (O 572-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 570

Ward 01
Brown-Price-Patterson Family Reunion — Welcome (R 583-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
Lewis, Oberta Lavada — Condolence (R 573-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Ward 02
James, Loretha — Congratulations (R 577-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566

Ward 03
Detroit Ave., 4423 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 534-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 589
Marinucci, Joseph A. — Congratulations (R 579-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon — permit — May 18th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
(Ward(s) 03, 15) (O 565-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576

Ward 04
Harris, Dorothy Marie — Congratulations (R 578-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
Miller, Hattie Belle (Oliver) — Condolence (R 574-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Ward 05
Friendly Inn Settlement, Inc. — 140th Anniversary — Congratulations (R 576-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Ward 06
Euclid Ave., 11311 — new application — liquor permit (F 554-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Ward 07
St. Clair Ave., 5510 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 566-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577
Superior Ave., 7017-19 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1064-13 —
liquor permit (R 569-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577

Ward 08
Drummer, Jr., Lawrence — Recognition (R 580-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
Greater Bethel A.M.E. Church — 2014 Youngstown District Conference — Recognition (R 582-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566

Ward 09
Drummer, Jr., Lawrence — Recognition (R 580-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
Linn Dr., 951 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 555-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Ward 11
Denison Ave., 9401-03 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 556-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Ward 12
Fleet Ave., 5222 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 69-14 — liquor
permit (R 570-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577

610

April 30, 2014

The City Record

49

Fleet Ave., 6506 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 174-14 —
liquor permit (R 571-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577

Ward 13
Memphis Ave., 6101 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 538-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 589
Pro Football Hall of Fame Fan Fest — Recognition (R 581-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566

Ward 15
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon — permit — May 18th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
(Ward(s) 03, 15) (O 565-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576
Simmons, Mary Louise (Hart) — Condolence (R 575-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565
West 67th St., — encroach into right-of-way — frost slab, pier shoring, and an entrance
doorway — Near West Theater, Inc. — Capital Projects Office (O 301-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Ward 16
Pro Football Hall of Fame Fan Fest — Recognition (R 581-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566

Ward 17
Pro Football Hall of Fame Fan Fest — Recognition (R 581-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
Saint Joseph Academy Jaguar Jog — permit — May 26 — Hermes Sports & Events (O 535-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603

Waste Collection And Disposal Division
Solid waste, transfer and disposal of — Works Department (O 568-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 569

Welcome
Brown-Price-Patterson Family Reunion (R 583-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566

611

