The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

December the Tenth, Two Thousand and Fourteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

39

Board of Control

39

Civil Service

40

1 Terrell H. Pruitt

Board of Zoning Appeals

40

2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
42

4 Kenneth L. Johnson

Public Notice

43

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

43

6 Mamie J. Mitchell

City of Cleveland Bids

43

7 TJ Dow

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

44

Committee Meetings

59

Index

60

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Jeffrey D. Johnson
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Martin J. Sweeney
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zack Reed ..........................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
44119
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Martin J. Flask, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Special Projects
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Public Affairs
Edward W. Rybka, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY – Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., Director
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Sharon Dumas, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Toinette Parrilla, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Chantez Williams, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Myron Benett, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Ronald J.H. O'Leary, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Eugene R. Miller (Board Lawyer), Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice
Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary
Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa
Ryan, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth
Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director; Anthony
J. Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Allan Dreyer, Giancarlo Calicchia, Council Member
Terrell H. Pruitt, Robert Strickland, Julie Trott, Robert Vilkas, Donald Petit, Interim
Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Ed Wade – Courtroom 12A
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Chief Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2014

Vol. 101

No. 5270

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2014
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2014-2017
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman
(CHAIR), Mitchell (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Property Committee: K. Johnson
(CHAIR), Sweeney (VICE-CHAIR),
Brancatelli, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, Reed.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley (CHAIR), Cleveland (VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Cimperman, Cummins, Dow, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR),
Brady
(VICEBrancatelli,
Cummins,
CHAIR),
Keane, Mitchell, Polensek.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Zone (VICE-CHAIR),
J.Johnson, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Sweeney.

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:

15617 Corsica Avenue,
(Ward 8). Received.

Mayor's Appointments Committee:
Sweeney (CHAIR), Brady, Cleveland, Dow, Kelley.

File No. 1649-14.
From Michael McGrath, Director,
Department of Public Safety, City of
Cleveland. Notice of acceptance of
100 smoke detectors for the Division
of Fire from The Home Depot at
Steelyard Commons, to be distributed to homes in need. Received.

Operations
Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR), Kelley, Keane, Mitchell,
Zone.
Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Keane, Pruitt.

Kelley
Cummins,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL

Cleveland

File No. 1660-14.
From Office of Equal Opportunity,
City of Cleveland. Bi-Monthly Status
Report for November, 2014, including
City Resident Utilization Report.
Received.

______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, December 8, 2014
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 7:04 p.m. with the
President of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the Chair.

File No. 1663-14.
From Cuyahoga County Board Of
Elections. Certificate of Result of
Election on Question or Issue for
Issue 35 at the election on November 4, 2014. Received.
PLAT

Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Brian J. Cummins,
TJ Dow, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Kevin
J. Kelley, Kenneth L. Johnson, Martin J. Keane, Mamie J. Mitchell, Terrell H. Pruitt, Zack Reed, Martin J.
Sweeney, and Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Chief of Staff
Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Government Affairs Valarie J. McCall,
Chief of Education Monyka S. Price,
Chief
of
Sustainability
Jenita
McGowan, Chief of Public Affairs
Natoya Walker-Minor, and Directors
Langhenry, Dumas, Smith, Spronz,
Parrilla,
McGrath,
Cox,
Rush,
O’Leary,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Griffin, Collier, Fumich, and Burrows.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
Rev.
Dr.
A.
L.
Owens,
Second
Ebenezer
Missionary
Baptist
Church, Cleveland, Ohio (Ward 7).
Pledge of Allegiance.

File No. 1617-14.
Dedication Plat – Logan Avenue
Extension, from East 97th Street to
East 101st Street. Approved by Committees on Development Planning
and Sustainability, and Municipal
Services and Properties. Without
objection, Plat approved.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1607-14.
RE: #8107930. Transfer of Ownership Application, C2 C2X. Short Cut
Deli, Inc., 14005 Benwood Avenue
(Ward 1). Received.
File No. 1608-14.
RE: #8900470. Transfer of Location Application, D2 D2X D3 D3A.
Shiva Shakti Once Corp., 2044 Euclid
Avenue (Ward 5). Received.

MOTION

File No. 1609-14.
RE: #5597480. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1. Marwan Ohio,
LLC, 1503 Spring Road, 1st Floor
(Ward 12). Received.

On the motion of Council Member
Zone, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Cleveland.

File No. 1610-14.
RE: #9115272. Transfer of Ownership Application, D2 D2X D3 D6.
28th Street Partnership, LLC, 2801
Bridge Avenue (Ward 3). Received.

COMMUNICATIONS

File No. 1611-14.
RE:
#37269590165.
Economic
Development Transfer Application,
D1 D2. Heinen’s, Inc., 900 & 1010
Euclid Avenue (Ward 3). Received.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone
(CHAIR),
Conwell
(VICECHAIR), Cimperman, Dow, K.Johnson, Keane, Polensek.
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Dow
(VICE-CHAIR), Conwell, J. Johnson,
K.Johnson, Reed, Sweeney.

File No. 1616-14.
From Diana Holly, Asset Manager, Emerald Development & Economic Network, Inc. (EDEN). Notice
of intent to utilize the multifamily
funding programs of the Ohio Housing Finance Agency for the renovation of eight residential units at

1799

File No. 1612-14.
RE: #0081076. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1 C2. AIGO, LLC,
4360 Miles Road (Ward 1). Received.

The City Record

4
File No. 1613-14.
RE: #9700399. New License Application, D5J. Winners CLE, Ltd., 5300
Riverside
Drive
(Ward
17).
Received.
File No. 1614-14.
RE:
#26325150005.
Economic
Development Transfer Application,
D5. Family Ventures, LLC, 14731
Miles Road (Ward 1). Received.
File No. 1615-14.
RE: #8922859. Economic Development Transfer Application, D5. 3356
Warren, LLC, 3356 Warren Road
(Ward 17). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res.
No.
1650-14—Anthony
E.
Smith.
Res. No. 1651-14—Captain Bruce
Hudec of The Goodtime III.
Res. No. 1652-14—Alton “Al” Lewis
Holsey.
Res. No. 1653-14—George E. Dedek.
Res. No. 1664-14—Gary E. “Harry”
Stroh.
Res. No. 1665-14—Robert T. Bennett.
Res. No. 1666-14—William Boyd.
Res.
No.
1667-14—Katherine
Drake.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1654-14—Judge Stuart A.
Friedman.
Res. No. 1655-14—Judge Robert C.
McClelland.
Res. No. 1656-14—Judge Deborah
J. Nicastro.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1657-14—The RISE Foundation of Dublin, Ireland.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1658-14—Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
Res. No. 1659-14—Cosandra Wheeler.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1625-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Department of Education for the
2015 Summer Food Service Program;
authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of breakfasts and
lunches and for food, food products,
beverages, condiments and paper
products to implement the grant, for

the Division of Recreation, Department of Public Works; and authorizing the Director to contract with various non-profit organizations for the
implementation of the Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $400,000.00, from the Ohio
Department of Education, to conduct
the 2015 Summer Food Service Program for the purposes described in
the summary; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in the summary for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, File No. 1625-14-A, made a part
of this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
as presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in
all respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements during the
grant term of unitized breakfasts and
lunches for the breakfast and lunch
program to be served at City recreation centers and at various non-profit agencies and other agencies or
recreation facilities as determined by
the Director, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Division
of Recreation, Department of Public
Works. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control shall determine.
Section 4. That provided the agencies meet the eligibility requirements
of the Ohio Department of Education,
the Director of Public Works is authorized to make one or more written
contracts with the various non-profit
organizations to implement this ordinance.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the
grant period for the necessary items
of various natural foods, food products, beverages, condiments and
paper products, to be served as part of
the meal program at Camp George L.
Forbes, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Public
Works. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control shall determine.
Section 6. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of

1800

December 10, 2014
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a delivery
order against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 7. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Works may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 8. That, notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 181.24 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, bidders for
the contract or contracts authorized
by this ordinance shall be required to
submit a bid bond in the amount of
five percent of the amount of the bid,
as required by United States Treasury
Circular 570.
Section 9. That the costs of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Municipal Services and Properties,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1626-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$6,900,000 for the purpose of providing
funds for housing and neighborhood
development, and authorizing related
matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $6,900,000 (the
“Series 2015 Bonds”) to finance the
costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Series 2015 Bonds
shall be payable from and secured by
income tax revenues of the City
remaining after deposits required
under the General Bond Ordinance
(as defined in Section 2) are made to
the escrow agent for the City’s general obligation bonds; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has certified to this Council that the estimated
life or usefulness of the improvements to be financed with the proceeds of the Series 2015 Bonds is at
least five years and the maximum
maturity of the Series 2015 Bonds is 20
years, as evidenced by the certificate
contained in File No. 1626-14-A; and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Series 2015 Bonds is
necessary to provide funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1 that are
urgently needed for the benefit of the
City, and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes an emergency measure

December 10, 2014
providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health and safety, and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed necessary to issue the Series 2015 Bonds
in an aggregate principal amount not
to exceed $6,900,000 for the purpose of
providing funds to provide housing
for individuals and families by constructing, renovating and rehabilitating single family homes by grants,
loans, subsidies to loans and otherwise, and to pay any capitalized interest and all expenses incurred in connection with the issuance of the securities, including all financing costs
within the meaning of Section
133.01(K) of the Revised Code and
such other costs of the foregoing permanent improvements that may be
financed with the proceeds of securities
as
permitted
by
Sections
133.15(B) and 133.51 of the Ohio
Revised Code and as otherwise permitted by law.
Section 2. Authority, Security and
Source of Payment. The Series 2015
Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the
Ohio Constitution, Chapters 133 and
176 of the Ohio Revised Code, the
Charter of the City, and this Ordinance for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Series 2015 Bonds shall be
payable from and secured by the
income tax revenues of the City on a
basis subordinate to the security
given to the General Obligation
Bonds of the City (“General Obligation Bonds”) under Ordinance No.
1749-80 passed by the Council on October 8, 1980, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1112-83 passed by the Council on
May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96,
passed by the Council on June 10, 1996
(Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so amended
and as the same may further be
amended from time to time in accordance with its provisions, is referred
to as the “General Bond Ordinance”).
The debt service on the Series 2015
Bonds shall be payable from income
tax
collections
remaining
after
depositing with the escrow agent
under the General Bond Ordinance
the amount required for the payment
of debt service on the City’s General
Obligation Bonds issued and outstanding, from time to time, under the
General Bond Ordinance. The Series
2015 Bonds shall be issued and
secured under the terms of the Trust
Indenture, dated as of April 1, 2008,
between the City and U.S. Bank
National Association, as trustee (the
“Trustee”), as amended by Section 6.1
of the Second Supplemental Trust
Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2010,
between the City and the Trustee
(together, the “Indenture”). The
Indenture currently secures five
series of Subordinate Lien Income
Tax Bonds issued on May 1, 2008 (collectively, the “Series 2008 Bonds”),
four series of Subordinate Lien
Income Tax Bonds issued on June 23,
2010 (collectively, the “Series 2010
Bonds”), one series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
November 29, 2012 (the “Series 2012
Bonds”), three series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
May 30, 2013 (collectively, the “Series
2013 Bonds”), three series of Subordinate Lien Income Tax Bonds issued
on February 11, 2014 (collectively, the
“Series 2014A Bonds”), and three
series of Subordinate Lien Income

The City Record
Tax Bonds issued on June 11, 2014
(collectively,
the
“Series
2014B
Bonds”) and permits the issuance of
additional bonds, from time to time,
subject to certain restrictions. The
Series 2008 Bonds, the Series 2010
Bonds, the Series 2012 Bonds, the
Series 2013 Bonds, the Series 2014A
Bonds, the Series 2014B Bonds, the
Series 2015 Bonds and any additional
bonds issued under the Indenture are
collectively referred to in this Ordinance as the “Bonds.”
Section 3. Pledge and Covenant to
Maintain Income Tax. So long as
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City pledges the
municipal income taxes of the City
and grants a lien thereon, subordinate to the lien granted in the General Bond Ordinance as security for the
General Obligation Bonds of the City
issued and outstanding under the
General Bond Ordinance, to the full
extent required to meet debt charges
payable on the Bonds issued and outstanding, from time to time, under the
Indenture. The City covenants to
appropriate
annually
sufficient
amounts from the income taxes to pay
all debt charges on the General Obligation Bonds, the Bonds outstanding
under the Indenture, any Parity
Obligations and the Unrestricted
Income Tax Obligations (each as
defined in the Indenture). The City
further covenants that so long as any
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City shall not repeal or
amend, or suffer the repeal of, any
ordinance for the levy or collection of
its income taxes in any manner or to
such extent that the City would not be
able to meet its obligations to the
holders of the Bonds.
Section 4. Terms of the Series 2015
Bonds. The Series 2015 Bonds shall be
issued in fully registered form. The
Series 2015 Bonds may be issued in
one or more series or subseries. The
Series 2015 Bonds may be delivered
only in book-entry form, and if so
delivered, shall be registered in the
name of the Depository (as defined in
the Indenture) or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the
custody of the Depository, and shall
not be transferable or exchangeable
(except for transfer to another Depository or its nominee) without further
action by the City pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture and the Seventh Supplement identified in Section
7. The Series 2015 Bonds shall be designated “Housing and Neighborhood
Development Bonds, Series 2015” and
may contain such further designation
as provided in the Certificate of
Award identified below. The Series
2015 Bonds shall be issued in one lot
as fully registered Series 2015 Bonds
in denominations of $5,000 or any
whole multiple thereof. The Series
2015 Bonds shall be numbered as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Series 2015 Bonds shall
be signed by the officials of the City
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture.
The Series 2015 Bonds shall be
dated the date of their issuance and
delivery or such other date specified
in the certificate of award providing
for the final terms of the Series 2015
Bonds and the sale of the Series 2015
Bonds in accordance with this Ordinance (the “Certificate of Award”).
The Series 2015 Bonds shall bear
interest from their date until the principal amount is paid at the rate or

1801

5
rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award, provided that the yield
(determined in accordance with the
arbitrage provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) of
the Series 2015 Bonds shall not exceed
8% per year, if sold as fixed rate
obligations. Interest on the Series
2015 Bonds shall be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1, or
such other dates specified in the Certificate of Award (the “Interest Payment Dates”).
The provisions of Sections  9.98 to
9.983 of the Revised Code shall apply
to the Series 2015 Bonds and pursuant
to that authority and this Ordinance,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award,
based on the written advice of a financial advisor, that the City’s best interests will be served by causing all or a
portion of the Series 2015 Bonds to be
obligations bearing interest at variable rates. If the Director of Finance
so determines, then the Director of
Finance shall specify in the Certificate of Award the method and procedure by which the variable rate of
interest to be borne by the variable
rate Series 2015 Bonds shall be determined; provided that the variable rate
Series 2015 Bonds shall not bear interest at a rate in excess of 25% per year.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to enter into agreements in connection with the delivery of the variable
rate Series 2015 Bonds, and from time
to time thereafter so long as the variable rate Series 2015 Bonds are outstanding, with providers of Credit
Support Instruments (as defined in
Section 11) and others as may be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Series 2015 Bonds
upon tender for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment
by the City of any amounts drawn
under the Credit Support Instrument.
The Series 2015 Bonds shall mature
in the years and principal amounts
set forth in the Certificate of Award,
provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, and (ii) the final maturity
date of the Series 2015 Bonds shall be
no later than August 1, 2037; provided
that the Series 2015 Bonds shall not
have more than 20 annual principal
installments. The Series 2015 Bonds
stated to mature in any year may be
issued as serial Series 2015 Bonds or
as term Series 2015 Bonds payable
prior to stated maturity pursuant to
sinking fund redemption (the “Term
Bonds”). The Director of Finance
shall determine in the Certificate of
Award whether any of the Series 2015
Bonds shall be issued as Term Bonds,
any dates (the “Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund installments rather than at
stated maturity and the amount of
principal to be paid on each Mandatory Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
If any of the Series 2015 Bonds are
issued as Term Series 2015 Bonds, the
Term Bonds shall be redeemed pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements
at
a

6
redemption price of 100% of the principal amount redeemed, plus interest
accrued to the redemption date, on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates. The
aggregate of the moneys to be
deposited with the Trustee for payment of principal of and interest on
any Term Bonds shall include
amounts sufficient to redeem on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates the
principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided in
the Indenture and the Seventh Supplement).
The Series 2015 Bonds may be subject to redemption prior to maturity
by and at the option of the City, in
whole or in part on any date, in whole
multiples of $5,000, on the redemption
dates and at the redemption prices
specified in the Certificate of Award,
plus, in each case, accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that
it is in the best interests of the City
(i) for some or all of the Series 2015
Bonds not to be callable prior to their
stated maturity, and (ii) for a premium to be payable on the redemption of
any Series 2015 Bonds calculated in a
manner to make the bondholder
whole for the loss of the investment or
calculated as a percentage in excess
of 100% of the principal amount
redeemed.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the City may
have the option to purchase any Bond
which is redeemable by optional
redemption at a purchase price not
less than the redemption price that
would be payable if that Bond were
called for optional redemption on the
date of the proposed purchase. That
election shall be exercised as provided in the Seventh Supplement.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the Series 2015
Bonds may be secured by a Debt Service Reserve Fund to be held by the
Trustee under the Indenture. The
principal amount of the Series 2015
Bonds may include provision for funding the Debt Service Reserve Fund
from the proceeds of the Series 2015
Bonds, subject to compliance with
applicable federal tax laws.
The Director of Finance shall indicate in the Certificate of Award
whether the Series 2015 Bonds are
being issued as obligations the interest on which is excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes (“Tax-Exempt Obligations”).
Section 5. Sale of Series 2015 Bonds.
The Series 2015 Bonds shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold to the purchaser identified in the Certificate of
Award (the “Original Purchaser”).
The Certificate of Award shall specify the final terms of the Series 2015
Bonds in accordance with law, the
provisions of this Ordinance, the written advice of a financial advisor
retained under authority of Section 12
and the Original Purchaser’s offer to
purchase the Series 2015 Bonds,
including: the principal amount of the
Series 2015 Bonds (which shall not
exceed the amount stated in Section  1), the purchase price (which

The City Record
shall be not less than 97% of the principal amount plus accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate or
rates, the amounts and years in which
principal installments are payable
(at stated maturity or pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements), terms and conditions
under which any Series 2015 Bonds
may be redeemed prior to maturity at
the option of the City, the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Series 2015 Bonds (if different from
those set forth in Section 3) and any
other matters required in this Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the Charter, the Mayor, Director of Finance,
Director of Law, Clerk of Council and
other appropriate officers of the City
are, and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest of
the City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Series 2015 Bonds and to make such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Series 2015 Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the Series
2015 Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript
certificates, financial statements and
other documents and instruments and
to take such actions as are necessary
or appropriate to consummate the
transactions contemplated by this
Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Series 2015 Bonds. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement between the City
and the Original Purchaser (the
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Series 2015 Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy the
Series 2015 Bonds on terms consistent
with this Ordinance and the Indenture, that are not substantially
adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Bond Purchase
Agreement or amendments to the
Bond Purchase Agreement by the
Director of Finance. It is determined
that the terms of the Series 2015
Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance
and as may be provided in or pursuant
to the Certificate of Award, the Indenture and the Seventh Supplement, are
in the best interest of the City and in
compliance with all legal requirements.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Series 2015 Bonds shall be applied as
follows:
(a) to the payment of any providers
of any Credit Support Instruments,
the fees and expenses required to be
paid by the City to obtain the Credit
Support Instrument;
(b) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Interest Payment Account in the Debt
Service Fund, the amount, if any,
received by the City upon delivery of
the Series 2015 Bonds as accrued
interest from their dated date to the
date of their delivery to the Original
Purchaser;

1802

December 10, 2014
(c) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Debt Service Reserve Fund, any
amount identified in the Certificate of
Award as required to be deposited in
the Debt Service Reserve Fund;
(d) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Interest Payment Account in the Debt
Service Fund, the amount, if any,
received by the City upon delivery of
the Series 2015 Bonds as original
issue premium from the sale of the
Series 2015 Bonds; and
(e) to the Trustee for deposit in the
Project Fund, the balance of the proceeds.
Section 7. Supplemental Indenture.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a supplemental trust indenture
(the “Seventh Supplement”), supplementing the Indenture to provide procedures for the authentication, registration and transfer of the Series 2015
Bonds, redemption of Series 2015
Bonds, payments under any Credit
Support Instrument authorized by
Section 11, application of the proceeds
of the Series 2015 Bonds, defeasance
of the Series 2015 Bonds, and other
terms consistent with this Ordinance
and the Certificate of Award and
approved by the Director of Finance
as not substantially adverse to the
City. The Seventh Supplement shall
be approved as to form by the Director
of Law. The determination by the
Director of Finance that the provisions of the Seventh Supplement are
not substantially adverse to the City
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the Director’s signing of the Seventh
Supplement. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law, the
Clerk of Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each
of them is, authorized to sign,
acknowledge and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, such documents, certifications and instruments
in addition to the Indenture and Seventh Supplement as may be necessary
or appropriate to issue and sell the
Series 2015 Bonds and to consummate
the transactions authorized by this
Ordinance.
Section 8. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Series 2015 Bonds for the purpose set
forth in Section 1, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $6,900,000
(the “Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth in a
certificate providing for the final
terms of the Notes and the sale of the
Notes and signed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”). The Notes, if sold as fixed
rate obligations, shall bear interest at
such rate, not exceeding 3% per year,
and shall be payable on the date or
dates, as shall be determined by the
Director of Finance of the City in the
Note Certificate of Award; shall be
dated their date of issuance; shall
mature on the date set forth in the
Note Certificate of Award; shall be
subject to redemption by the City at
any time prior to maturity without
penalty, unless the Director of
Finance, based on the advice of a
financial advisor, determines that it
is in the best interest of the City in
order to enhance the marketability of
the Notes, that the Notes not be
redeemable prior to maturity or that a
premium be paid on their prior
redemption; shall be designated

December 10, 2014
“Housing and Neighborhood Development Bond Anticipation Notes” or as
otherwise provided in the Note Certificate of Award; shall be issued in
such numbers and denominations as
may be requested by the Note Purchaser (hereinafter defined); and
shall be issued in fully registered
form (which may be in a book entry
only system). The provisions of Sections 9.98 to 9.983 of the Revised Code
shall apply to the Notes and pursuant
to that authority and this Ordinance,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award,
based on the written advice of a financial advisor, that the City’s best interests will be served by causing all or a
portion of the Notes to be obligations
bearing interest at variable rates. If
the Director of Finance so determines, then the Director of Finance
shall specify in the Certificate of
Award the method and procedure by
which the variable rate of interest to
be borne by the variable rate Notes
shall be determined; provided that the
variable rate Notes shall not bear
interest at a rate in excess of 25% per
year. The Director of Finance is
authorized to enter into agreements
in connection with the delivery of the
variable rate Notes, and from time to
time thereafter so long as the variable rate Notes are outstanding, with
providers of Credit Support Instruments (as defined in Section 11) and
others as may be determined by the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
to be necessary or appropriate to provide for the method of determining
the variable interest rates, permitting
holders the right of tender, providing
for liquidity or credit support for the
payment of the variable rate Notes
upon tender for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment
by the City of any amounts drawn
under the Credit Support Instrument.
The Trustee shall be the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes. The
Notes shall be signed by the officials
of the City and in the manner set forth
in the Indenture. The Notes shall first
be offered for purchase to the
Trustees of the Sinking Fund and, if
not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
at not less than par and accrued interest to one or more firms that have proposed to underwrite the Notes and
have been selected by the Director of
Finance based on an evaluation of the
qualifications of those firms (the
“Note Purchaser”) in the principal
amount set forth in a certificate of
award to be executed by the Director
of Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”). The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund or
funds set forth in the Note Certificate
of Award and used for the purpose for
which the Notes are being issued
under the provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 9. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Series 2015 Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or the
Series 2015 Bonds, as the case may be,

The City Record
and any necessary supplements and
to authorize the use and distribution
of each Official Statement and any
supplements. The Director of Finance
is authorized to sign on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity each
Official Statement and any supplements approved by her. The Director
of Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City and in
her official capacity such certificates
in connection with the accuracy of
each Official Statement and any supplements as may, in her judgment, be
necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also authorized to
determine and certify on behalf of the
City that such disclosure document is
“deemed final” by the City within the
meaning of Securities and Exchange
Commission Rule 15c2-12 the “SEC
Rule.” The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract for services for
the production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Series 2015 Bonds, the
City agrees, in accordance with, and
as the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Series
2015 Bonds under the SEC Rule, to
provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that
purpose, and thereby to implement
that agreement, including provisions
for enforcement, amendment and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized to prepare, or cause to be
prepared, and to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City, a
continuing disclosure agreement or
certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of the
holders and beneficial owners of the
Notes or the Series 2015 Bonds, as the
case may be, in accordance with the
SEC Rule. The performance of that
agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual
appropriation to meet costs the City
would be required to incur to perform
it. The Director of Finance is further
authorized to establish procedures in
order to ensure compliance by the
City with its continuing disclosure
agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices.
Section 10. Federal Tax ConsideraThe
representations
and
tions.
covenants in this Section apply only if
the Series 2015 Bonds are issued as
Tax-Exempt Obligations. The City
covenants that it will use, and will
restrict the use and investment of, the
proceeds of the Series 2015 Bonds and
any Notes in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(i)  the Series 2015 Bonds and any
Notes will not (A) constitute private
activity bonds or arbitrage bonds
under Sections 141 or 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of l986, as amended
(the “Code”) or (B) be treated other
than as bonds the interest on which is
excluded from gross income under
Section 103 of the Code, and (ii) the
interest on the Series 2015 Bonds and
any Notes will not be an item of tax
preference under Section 57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (i)
it will take or cause to be taken such

1803

7
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Series 2015 Bonds
and any Notes to be and remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes (ii) it will not
take or authorize to be taken any
actions that would adversely affect
that exclusion, and (iii) it, or persons
acting for it, will, among other acts of
compliance (A) apply the proceeds of
the Series 2015 Bonds and any Notes to
the governmental purpose of the borrowing (B) restrict the yield on
investment property (C) make timely
and adequate payments to the federal
government (D) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports and (E) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property financed with such
proceeds, all in such manner and to
the extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
The Director of Finance or any
other officer of the City having
responsibility for issuance of the
Series 2015 Bonds and any Notes is
hereby authorized (i) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Series 2015 Bonds and
any Notes as the City is permitted to
or required to make or give under the
federal income tax laws, including,
without limitation thereto, any of the
elections available under Section 148
of the Code, for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax treatment or tax status of the
Series 2015 Bonds and any Notes or
interest thereon, or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense
of such compliance, reducing rebate
amounts or payments or penalties or
making payments of special amounts
in lieu of making computations to
determine, or paying, excess earnings
as rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer
(ii) to take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make
payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and on
behalf of the City, as may be appropriate to assure the intended tax status of the Series 2015 Bonds and any
Notes and (iii) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Series 2015 Bonds
and any Notes, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Series 2015 Bonds
and any Notes, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they
are based, and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment
of the interest on the Series 2015
Bonds and any Notes and the tax status of the Series 2015 Bonds and any
Notes.
Section 11. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Series
2015 Bonds or any Notes (a “Credit
Support Instrument”). The Director of
Finance may request a rating on the

8
Series 2015 Bonds or Notes from one or
more nationally recognized rating
organizations, and do any and all
things and take any and all actions
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings
on the Series 2015 Bonds or Notes. The
Director of Finance may enter into
one or more agreements for Credit
Support
Instruments
containing
terms not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance or the Indenture.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Series 2015 Bonds or Notes to the
extent available and otherwise from
any other funds lawfully available
that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 12. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 13. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and that all
deliberations of this Council any of its
committees that resulted in these formal actions were held, in meetings
open to the public in compliance with
all legal requirements, including,
without limitation, Section 121.22 of
the Revised Code.
Section 14. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Series 2015 Bonds and the Notes
in order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required by law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional, will
have been exceeded in the issuance of
the Series 2015 Bonds or the Notes. It
is further found and determined, and
is represented and recited, that the
provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33
(including the provisions of Section
33 with respect to readings on three
separate days or dispensing with
such readings by a two-thirds vote of
all members of the Council), 36, 37, 48
and all other applicable provisions of
the City’s Charter and the rules of this
Council have been fully complied
with and this Ordinance was passed
in conformity therewith.
Section 15. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
authorized to forward a certified copy
of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of Award for the Series 2015
Bonds and any Note Certificate of
Award to the County Fiscal Officer of
Cuyahoga County and to secure a
receipt therefor.

The City Record
Section 16. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is declared to be an
independent section or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other
evidence of legislative intent, it is
declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such section or
part of a section or any provision
thereof, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person
or circumstance, other than those as
to which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 17. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio and Section 16 of Article VIII of
the Constitution of Ohio. Any provisions of the Codified Ordinances of
the City which are inconsistent with
the provisions of this Ordinance shall
not apply to the Series 2015 Bonds or
the Notes authorized herein.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding Series 2015 Bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration was
duly received by the City prior to the
passage of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1627-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing
for the issuance and sale of revenue
bonds in a principal amount not to
exceed $16,300,000 to provide funds
for economic and community development in the city and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, the City is authorized by
virtue of the laws of the State of Ohio,
including, without limitation, Section
13 of Article VIII of the Ohio Constitution and Chapter 165 of the Revised
Code, among other things, to issue
bonds to acquire, construct, equip, or
improve one or more projects (as
defined in Section 165.01 of the

1804

December 10, 2014
Revised Code) for the purpose of creating or preserving jobs and employment opportunities and improving the
economic welfare of the people of the
City and of the State of Ohio, including providing money to make loans to
others for such purposes; and
Whereas, to create and preserve
jobs and employment opportunities,
the City has issued bonds under its
Core City Fund Program; and
Whereas, the City has determined
to authorize as Additional Bonds
under the Trust Indenture described
in Section 1 another series of Economic and Community Development Revenue Bonds (the Series 2015 Bonds)
for those purposes; and
Whereas, it is necessary to issue
the Series 2015 Bonds and to do so as
soon as possible to address financing
needs of pending economic and community development projects and, as
a result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for the
immediate preservation of the public
property, health, and safety and for
the usual and daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition to
the words and terms elsewhere
defined in this Ordinance, including
its preambles, unless the context or
use clearly indicates another or different meaning or intent:
“Bond Fund” means the Core City
Program Bond Retirement Fund held
by the Trustee under the Trust Indenture.
“Bond Reserve Fund” means the
Core City Program Bond Reserve
Fund held by the Trustee under the
Trust Indenture.
“Bonds” means the outstanding
Series 2004 Bonds, the Series 2013A
Bonds, the Series 2014 Bonds, the
Series 2015 Bonds authorized by this
Ordinance, and any subsequent series
of Additional Bonds issued under the
Trust Indenture.
“Book entry form” or “Book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (a) the ownership of
book entry interests in the Bonds and
the principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (b) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued only to a Depository or its nominee as registered
owner, with the physical Bond certificates “immobilized” in the custody of
the Depository or its agent. The book
entry system is maintained by and is
the responsibility of the Depository
and not the City or the Bond Registrar. The book entry is the record that
identifies, and records the transfer of
the interests of, the owners of beneficial (book entry) interests in the
Bonds.
“Certificate of Award” means the
certificate authorized by Section 6, to
be signed by the Director of Finance,
setting forth and determining those
terms or other matters pertaining to
the Series 2015 Bonds and their
amount, issuance, sale and delivery
as this Ordinance requires or authorizes to be set forth or determined in
it.
“Continuing Disclosure Agreement”
means the agreement authorized by
Section  11, which, together with the
agreements of the City set forth in
that Section, shall constitute the continuing disclosure agreement made
by the City for the benefit of holders

December 10, 2014
and beneficial owners of the Series
2015 Bonds in accordance with the
Rule.
“Corporation” means Cleveland
Citywide Development Corporation,
the community improvement corporation organized under Revised Code
Chapter 1724 and designated by this
Council as the “agency” of the City
within the meaning of Revised Code
Chapter 165.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
a letter of credit, an insurance policy,
standby bond purchase agreement, or
other credit enhancement or liquidity
device provided to enhance the security or liquidity of the Series 2015
Bonds.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of book entry interests in Bonds or the principal of and
interest on the Bonds, and to effect
transfers of Bonds, in book entry
form, and includes and means initially The Depository Trust Company (a
limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Economic
Development
Plan”
means the plan of industrial, commercial, distribution and research development prepared by the Corporation
and approved by this Council.
“Net Project Revenues” means Revenues, if any, remaining and available to pay debt charges on the Bonds
after the application by the City of
the Revenues to make grants or loans
for additional economic development
projects in the City.
“Nontax Revenues” means all moneys of the City which are not moneys
raised by taxation, to the extent available for the purpose of paying debt
charges on the Bonds, including, but
not limited to the following: (a)
grants from the United States of
America and the State; (b) payments
in lieu of taxes now or hereafter
authorized by State statute; (c) fines
and forfeitures which are deposited in
the City’s General Fund; (d) fees
deposited in the City’s General Fund
for services provided and from properly imposed licenses and permits; (e)
investment earnings on the City’s
General Fund; (f)  investment earnings on other funds of the City that
are credited to the City’s General
Fund; (g) proceeds from the sale of
assets which are deposited in the
City’s General Fund; (h) gifts and
donations; and (i) all rental payments
which are deposited in the City’s General Fund.
“Original Purchaser” means the
original purchaser or original purchasers of the Series 2015 Bonds, as
specified by the Director of Finance
in the Certificate of Award.
“Proceedings” means, collectively,
this Ordinance, the Certificate of
Award, the Trust Indenture as amended and supplemented, including by
the Sixth Supplement, the Continuing
Disclosure Agreement and such other
proceedings of the City, including the
Series 2015 Bonds, that provide collectively for, among other things, the
rights of holders and beneficial owners of the Series 2015 Bonds.
“Project” means each project or, collectively, all projects (as defined in
Section  165.01 of the Revised Code)
funded from the Series 2015 Bonds for
the purpose of creating or preserving
jobs and employment opportunities
and improving the economic welfare

The City Record
of the people of the City and of the
State of Ohio, including providing
money to make loans to others for
such purposes, and including but not
limited to the acquisition, construction, equipping, or improvement of
multi-unit housing and commercial
development and the preparation or
remediation of sites for such purposes.
“Project Fund” means the Series
2015 Project Fund established pursuant to Section 10.
“Revenues” means the rentals, revenues,
payments,
repayments,
income, charges, and moneys derived
or to be derived from the use, lease,
sublease, rental, sale, including
installment sale or conditional sale,
or other disposition of individual Projects, or derived or to be derived from
a loan made for a Project.
“Rule” means SEC Rule 15c2-12.
“Series 2004 Bonds” means the
City’s $19,280,000 Taxable Economic
and Community Development Revenue Bonds, Series 2004 (Core City
Fund).
“Series 2013A Bonds” means the
City’s $25,360,000 Taxable Economic
and
Community
Development
Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series
2013A (Core City Fund).
“Series 2014 Bonds” means the
City’s $12,365,000 Taxable Economic
and
Community
Development
Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series
2014 (Core City Fund).
“Series 2015 Bonds” means the
Bonds authorized by this Ordinance.
“Sixth Supplement” means the Sixth
Supplemental Trust Indenture providing for the terms of the Series 2015
Bonds.
“State” means the State of Ohio.
“Trust Indenture” means the Trust
Indenture dated as of December 15,
2003 between the City and the
Trustee, as supplemented and amended from time to time.
“Trustee” means U.S. Bank National
Association, as trustee, paying agent
and registrar for the Bonds under the
Trust Indenture.
Unless otherwise indicated, any reference to a Section is a reference to a
Section of this Ordinance.
Section 2.    Authorized Principal
Amount and Purpose. This Council
determines that each Project is a “project” as defined in Revised Code Chapter 165 and is consistent with the purposes of Section 13, Article VIII of the
Ohio Constitution to benefit the people of the City and of the State by creating and preserving jobs and
employment
opportunities
and
improving the economic welfare of
the people of the City and of the State.
It is necessary and proper and in the
best interest of the City to, and the
City shall, issue the Series 2015 Bonds
in an aggregate principal amount not
to exceed $16,300,000 for the purpose
of providing the funds necessary for
the Project. The final aggregate principal amount of the Series 2015 Bonds
will be determined in the Certificate
of Award as provided in Section 6.
Section 3.    Terms of Series 2015
Bonds. The Series 2015 Bonds shall be
dated the date of issuance or such
other date as is designated in the Certificate of Award. The Series 2015
Bonds shall mature on the dates and
in the respective principal amounts to
be determined by the Director of
Finance in the Certificate of Award in
accordance with her determination of
the best interest of, and financial
advantages to, the City; provided that

1805

9
the final maturity date shall be not
later than 30 years from the date of
issuance of the Series 2015 Bonds. The
Series 2015 Bonds shall bear interest
from their date at the rate or rates per
year set forth in the Certificate of
Award, or if any Series 2015 Bonds
bear interest at a variable rate, at the
rate determined pursuant to the Trust
Indenture and the Certificate of
Award. Interest on the Series 2015
Bonds shall be payable on the dates
by
the
Director
of
determined
Finance in the Certificate of Award,
and the Series 2015 Bonds shall bear
interest at those rates until the principal amount of the Series 2015 Bonds is
paid or payment is provided for. If
any Series 2015 Bonds bear interest at
a fixed rate, that rate shall not exceed
8% per year (computed on the basis of
a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30day months) and interest shall be
payable not more often than every six
months and at maturity or at any earlier redemption date. If any Series
2015 Bonds bear interest at a variable
rate or rates, those rates shall not
exceed that set forth below, and interest shall be payable not more often
than once a month and following purchase and at maturity or at any earlier redemption date.
The Series 2015 Bonds may be
issued in one or more separate series,
each bearing a distinctive designation, provided that the Series 2015
Bonds of each series satisfy the
requirements of this Ordinance. Separate series of Series 2015 Bonds may
be issued at the same or different
times. The Series 2015 Bonds of each
series shall be designated as provided
in the applicable Certificate of
Award. A separate Certificate of
Award may be delivered for each
Series.
In the event that the Director of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, determines
that the City’s best interests will be
served by causing all or a portion of
the Series 2015 Bonds to be obligations bearing interest at variable
rates, redeemable by the City without
penalty or premium on interest
adjustment dates, then the Director of
Finance is authorized to so specify in
the Certificate of Award. If the Director of Finance so determines, then the
Director of Finance shall specify in
the Certificate of Award the method
and procedure by which the variable
rate of interest to be borne by the variable rate Series 2015 Bonds shall be
determined, whether by reference to a
market index, by a remarketing
agent or otherwise; provided that the
variable rate Series 2015 Bonds shall
not bear interest at a rate in excess of
25% per year. Holders of variable rate
Series 2015 Bonds may be given the
right to tender their variable rate
Series 2015 Bonds for purchase by the
City at the times, on the terms, and
subject to the conditions set forth in
the Certificate of Award and any tender agreement; provided that tender
rights shall be exercisable only at
such times as a Credit Support Instrument is in place that provides for the
payment of the purchase price
payable to the tendering holder of a
variable rate Bond. If the Director of
Finance designates any Series 2015
Bonds as variable rate Series 2015
Bonds, and if the holders of the variable rate Series 2015 Bonds are to be
entitled to tender the variable rate
Series 2015 Bonds for purchase, then

10
the Director of Finance shall also designate in the Certificate of Award for
those variable rate Series 2015 Bonds
the provider or providers for any
Credit Support Instrument, the tender
agent or agents and the remarketing
agent or agents, which designations
shall be based on the determination of
the Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
that the parties so designated possess
the requisite resources and experience to provide the services required
of them and that the terms on which
the designated parties have agreed to
provide such services are fair and
commercially reasonable. The Director of Finance is authorized to enter
into agreements in connection with
the delivery of the variable rate
Series 2015 Bonds, and from time to
time thereafter so long as the variable rate Series 2015 Bonds are outstanding, with providers of Credit
Support Instruments, tender agents
(which may be the Trustee), remarketing agents, and others as may be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Series 2015 Bonds
upon tender for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment
by the City of any amounts drawn
under the Credit Support Instrument.
The Director of Finance, in connection with the original issuance of the
Series 2015 Bonds, and regardless of
the Series 2015 Bonds bearing interest
at variable or fixed rates, is authorized to contract for one or more Credit Support Instruments, and to pay
their costs from proceeds of the Series
2015 Bonds, if he determines that the
Credit Support Instrument or Instruments will result in a savings in the
cost of this financing to the City,
based on the written advice of a financial advisor.
The Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a financial advisor, shall further determine and specify in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Series 2015 Bonds
are subject to optional redemption
prior to maturity, the earliest date on
which redeemable Series 2015 Bonds
shall be subject to prior redemption,
which shall not be later than ten
years from the first interest payment
date, and the applicable redemption
premium for the redeemable Series
2015 Bonds, which shall be not greater
than 103% of the principal amount
redeemed.
The Director of Finance shall indicate in the Certificate of Award
whether the Series 2015 Bonds are
being issued as obligations the interest on which is excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes (“Tax-Exempt Obligations”).
Section  4. Registration, Transfer
and Exchange. The Series 2015 Bonds
shall be issued only as fully registered Series 2015 Bonds. The Trustee
shall act as the authenticating agent,
registrar, transfer agent, and paying
agent for the Series 2015 Bonds,
except as otherwise provided in the
Trust Indenture.
Principal of the Series 2015 Bonds
shall be payable when due upon presentation and surrender of the Series
2015 Bonds at the office of the Trustee

The City Record
designated in the Trust Indenture.
Interest on each Bond shall be paid on
each interest payment date by check
or draft mailed to the person in whose
name the Bond was registered, and to
that person’s address appearing on
the Register (defined below in this
Section) at the close of business on
the record date provided in the Trust
Indenture. The Trustee shall maintain and keep all books and records
necessary
for
the
registration,
exchange, and transfer of Series 2015
Bonds as provided in the Trust Indenture (the “Register”) so long as any of
the Series 2015 Bonds remain outstanding. Subject to the provisions in
the Trust Indenture, the person in
whose name a Bond is registered on
the Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of the Proceedings. Payment of or on account of the debt
charges on any Bond shall be made
only to or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Trustee
shall be affected by any notice to the
contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in the Trust
Indenture. All such payments shall be
valid and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the extent
of the amount or amounts so paid.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
and so long as the Series 2015 Bonds
are issued in a book entry system,
principal of and interest on the Series
2015 Bonds shall be payable in the
manner provided in any agreement
entered into by the Director of
Finance, in the name and on behalf of
the City, in connection with the book
entry system.
Series
2015
Bonds
may
be
exchanged for Series 2015 Bonds of
any authorized denomination upon
presentation and surrender at the
office designated by the Trustee,
together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or by
a person legally empowered to do so
in a form satisfactory to the Trustee.
The Series 2015 Bonds may be
issued to a Depository for use in a
book entry system and, if and as long
as a book entry system is utilized (i)
the Series 2015 Bonds may be issued
in the form of a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the
Depository or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the
custody of the Depository; (ii) the
book entry interest owners of Series
2015 Bonds in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Series 2015
Bonds in the form of physical securities or certificates; (iii) ownership of
book entry interests in book entry
form shall be shown by book entry on
the system maintained and operated
by the Depository and its Participants, and transfers of the ownership
of book entry interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository
and its Participants; and (iv) the
Series 2015 Bonds as such shall not be
transferable or exchangeable, except
for transfer to another Depository or
to another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not to
continue to act as a Depository for the
Series 2015 Bonds for use in a book
entry system, the Director of Finance
may attempt to establish a securities
depository/book entry relationship
with another qualified Depository. If
the Director of Finance does not or is
unable to do so, the Director of

1806

December 10, 2014
Finance, after making provision for
notification of the book entry interest
owners by the then Depository and
any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit withdrawal of
the Series 2015 Bonds from the Depository, and authenticate and deliver
certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance also is
authorized to the extent necessary or
required to enter into any agreements
determined necessary in connection
with the book entry system for the
Series 2015 Bonds, after determining
that the signing thereof will not
endanger the funds or securities of
the City and after the approval of the
form of any such agreement by the
Director of Law.
Section 5. Execution of Series 2015
Bonds. Series 2015 Bonds shall be
signed by the Mayor and the Director
of Finance, in the name of the City
and in their official capacities, provided that either or both of those signatures may be a facsimile, and shall
bear the seal of the City or a facsimile
thereof; provided that no Bond shall
be valid or obligatory for any purpose
or shall be entitled to any security or
benefit under the Proceedings unless
and until the certificate of authentication printed on the Bond is signed
by the Trustee as authenticating
agent, and authentication by the
Trustee shall be conclusive evidence
that the Bond so authenticated has
been duly issued, signed and delivered under, and is entitled to the security and benefit of, the Proceedings.
The certificate of authentication may
be signed by any authorized officer or
employee of the Trustee or by any
other person acting as an agent of the
Trustee and approved by the Director
of Finance on behalf of the City. The
same person need not sign the certificate of authentication on all of the
Series 2015 Bonds.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s
Charter, the Director of Law shall prepare the Series 2015 Bonds and shall
endorse thereon her approval of the
form and correctness thereof by her
manual or facsimile signature. The
Series 2015 Bonds shall be issued in
the denominations as requested by
the Original Purchaser and approved
by the Director of Finance, in conformity with this Ordinance. The entire
principal amount may be represented
by a single bond certificate and may
be issued as fully registered securities and in book entry or other uncertificated form if it is determined by
the Director of Finance that issuance
of fully registered securities in that
form will facilitate the sale and delivery of the Series 2015 Bonds. The
Series 2015 Bonds may be issued in
the authorized denominations of
either (a) $100,000 each or in any
denomination that is the sum of (i)
$100,000 and (ii) $5,000 or any integral
multiple thereof, and not exchangeable for other Series 2015 Bonds in
denominations less than $100,000, or
(b) $5,000 or any integral multiple
thereof, as determined by the Director
of Finance in the Certificate of Award
to be in the best interests of the City.
The Series 2015 Bonds shall not have
coupons attached, shall be numbered
as determined by the Director of
Finance and shall express upon their

December 10, 2014
faces the purpose, in summary terms,
for which they are issued and that
they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 6. Sale of Series 2015 Bonds.
The Series 2015 Bonds shall be sold at
not less than 97% of par plus accrued
interest at private sale by the Director of Finance to the Original Purchaser in accordance with law and
the provisions of this Ordinance. If
the Director of Finance determines,
based on the written advice of a financial advisor, that an underwriter is
incapable of fully performing its
duties or meeting its obligations in its
capacity as Original Purchaser with
respect to the Series 2015 Bonds, the
Director of Finance is hereby authorized, in the name of and on behalf of
the City, to take whatever action may
be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing as Original Purchaser. The Director of Finance shall
sign the Certificate of Award referred
to in this Ordinance, evidencing that
sale to the Original Purchaser, cause
the Series 2015 Bonds to be prepared,
and have the Series 2015 Bonds signed
and delivered, together with a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Series 2015
Bonds if requested by the Original
Purchaser, to the Original Purchaser
upon payment of the purchase price.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, a bond purchase
agreement between the City and the
Original Purchaser, or representative
thereof (the “Purchase Agreement”),
in a form consistent with this Ordinance and as approved by the Director of Law. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant
to the Purchase Agreement from the
proceeds of the Series 2015 Bonds to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose. The Mayor, the Director
of Finance, the Clerk, the Director of
Law, and other City officials, as
appropriate, are each authorized to
sign any transcript certificates,
financial statements and other documents and instruments and to take
such actions as are necessary or
appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance.
Section  7. Security for the Bonds.
The Series 2015 Bonds shall be special
obligations of the City, and the debt
charges on the Series 2015 Bonds, as
well as the Series 2004 Bonds, the
Series 2013A Bonds, the Series 2014
Bonds, and any Additional Bonds,
shall be payable solely from the Net
Project Revenues and the Nontax
Revenues. The payment of debt
charges on the Bonds is secured by
the Trust Indenture and by a pledge
of and lien on the Bond Fund held by
the Trustee under the Trust Indenture. The Bonds are not and shall not
be secured by an obligation or pledge
of any money raised by taxation. The
Bonds do not and shall not represent
or constitute a debt or pledge of the
faith and credit or taxing power of
the City, and the owners thereof have
and shall have no right to have taxes
levied by the City for the payment of
debt charges thereon. The Series 2015
Bonds shall contain a statement to
that effect and to the effect that the
Bonds are payable solely from the Net
Project Revenues and the Nontax

The City Record
Revenues and are not secured by an
obligation or pledge of any money
raised by taxation.
The City covenants and agrees that
while the Bonds are outstanding, it
will appropriate and maintain Nontax
Revenues at such times and in such
amounts as will be sufficient, together with the Net Project Revenues and
any other funds available for the purpose, to pay the debt charges on the
Bonds and will so restrict other obligations payable from Nontax Revenues prior to or on a parity with the
Bonds as will ensure the continuing
availability for appropriation of sufficient Nontax Revenues to pay debt
charges when due.
In accordance with the Trust Indenture, there shall be deposited in the
Bond Fund (i) any Net Project Revenues, and (ii) other Nontax Revenues on or prior to the date debt
charges on the Bonds are due, in an
amount sufficient to pay those debt
charges. There shall be deposited in
the Bond Reserve Fund from the proceeds of the Series 2015 Bonds or a
Credit
Support
Instrument,
the
amount, if any, determined by the
Director of Finance based on the written advice of a financial advisor, to
enhance the marketability of the
Series 2015 Bonds and to enable the
City to stabilize its budget against
fluctuations in the receipt of Nontax
Revenues. Money in the Bond Fund
and Bond Reserve Fund shall be
applied and invested as provided in
the Trust Indenture. Amounts drawn
on the Bond Reserve Fund shall be
restored to the extent, and over the
period of time, provided in the Trust
Indenture.
Section 8. Payment of Debt Changes
on the Series 2015 Bonds.
Nothing
herein shall be construed as requiring
the City to use or apply to the payment of debt charges on the Series
2015 Bonds any funds or revenues
from any source other than Net Project Revenues and the Nontax Revenues. Subject to the requirements of
Revised Code Section 176.04, nothing
herein, however, shall be deemed to
prohibit the City, of its own volition,
from using, to the extent that it is
authorized by law to do so, any other
resources for the fulfillment of any of
the terms, conditions or obligations of
this Ordinance or of the Series 2015
Bonds.
The City will, solely from the proceeds of the Series 2015 Bonds or from
the Net Project Revenues or the Nontax Revenues, pay or cause to be paid
the debt charges on the Series 2015
Bonds on the dates, at the places and
in the manner provided herein and in
the Series 2015 Bonds. For that purpose, in each year while the Bonds are
outstanding, this Council, after providing for the payment of debt
charges payable on the City’s general
obligation securities in that year
from sources available for that purpose, will appropriate Nontax Revenues required to pay, and for the purpose of paying, the debt charges due
in that year on the Bonds (less other
money available for the purpose) and
any outstanding parity obligations
payable from Nontax Revenues. Further, this Council will give effect to
such appropriations in all ordinances
it passes thereafter in that year
appropriating money for expenditure
and encumbrance and limit the other
appropriations of Nontax Revenues in
that year to the amount available
after deducting the amount required
for the payment of debt charges
payable on the City’s general obligation securities and to pay those debt

1807

11
charges. The City covenants that, so
long as any of the Bonds are outstanding, it shall not issue any additional obligations payable from the
Nontax Revenues on a parity with the
Bonds and any outstanding parity
obligations payable from Nontax Revenues, unless, prior to passage of the
ordinance authorizing such parity
obligations, the Director of Finance
shall have certified to this Council
that the Nontax Revenues during the
preceding calendar year, adjusted to
reflect, if necessary, changes in the
rates or charges resulting in the Nontax Revenues, aggregate in amount
not less than 100% of the highest
amount of (a) debt charges on the
Bonds and (b) required payments on
such proposed parity obligations and
any outstanding parity obligations
due in any succeeding calendar year.
obligation
of
the
City
Each
required to be undertaken pursuant to
this Ordinance and the Series 2015
Bonds is binding upon the City, and
upon each officer or employee of the
City as may from time to time have
the authority under law to take any
action on behalf of the City as may be
necessary to perform all or any part
of such obligation, as a duty of the
City and of each of those officers and
employees resulting from an office,
trust or station within the meaning of
Section  2731.01 of the Revised Code,
providing for enforcement by writ of
mandamus.
Section 9. Supplemental Trust
Indenture. The City shall enter into
the Sixth Supplement, supplementing
the original Trust Indenture, to further provide for the terms of the
Series 2015 Bonds. The Mayor and the
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf of
the City, the Sixth Supplement in a
form consistent with this Ordinance
and approved by the Director of Law.
The Mayor and the Director of
Finance and other City officials, as
appropriate, are authorized to take
such actions and sign and deliver
such related instruments as are necessary or appropriate to consummate
the transactions contemplated by this
Ordinance.
Section 10. Project Fund; Deposit of
Proceeds. The proceeds from the sale
of the Series 2015 Bonds are appropriated and shall be used for the purpose
for which the Series 2015 Bonds are
being issued. There is created by the
City, as a separate fund or account, in
the custody and control of the
Trustee, a fund designated the “Core
City Program Series 2015 Project
Fund” (the “Project Fund”). That Project Fund shall be maintained separate and apart from the fund established as the project fund for any
other series of Bonds issued under the
Trust Indenture. The proceeds from
the sale of the Series 2015 Bonds shall
be deposited in the Project Fund.
Additional funds, from whatever
source, may be voluntarily deposited
in the Project Fund by the City.
Funds in the Project Fund may be
used to pay costs of a Project, or to
make loans to others to pay costs of
that Project, consistent with Revised
Code Chapter 165, following certification of the Project by the Corporation
as being in accordance with the Economic Development Plan. Moneys in
the Project Fund are appropriated
for, and shall be used to pay, costs of
Projects consistent with the requirements of this Ordinance. The City
may establish additional accounts or

12
subaccounts within the Project Fund
as necessary or convenient to ascertain the dates, amounts and sources of
deposits. At such time as disbursements are to be made from the Project
Fund to pay costs of a Project, the
City shall direct the Trustee to transfer amounts in the Project Fund to the
City for subsequent disbursement by,
or reimbursement to, the City for Project purposes. Any portion of the proceeds of the Series 2015 Bonds to be
used to pay interest on the Series 2015
Bonds shall be deposited in a capitalized interest subaccount of the Project Fund. Any accrued interest
received from the sale of the Bonds
shall be deposited in the Bond Fund.
Section 11. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Series 2015 Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare or
cause to be prepared on behalf of the
City an Official Statement with
respect to the Series 2015 Bonds, as
the case may be, and any necessary
supplements and to authorize the use
and distribution of each Official
Statement and any supplements. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in her
official capacity each Official Statement and any supplements approved
by her. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver on
behalf of the City and in her official
capacity such certificates in connection with the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements
as may, in her judgment, be necessary
or appropriate. The Director of
Finance is also authorized to determine and certify on behalf of the City
that such disclosure document is
“deemed final” by the City within the
meaning of Securities and Exchange
Commission Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC
Rule”). The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract for services for
the production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Series 2015 Bonds, the City agrees,
in accordance with, and as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Series 2015 Bonds under the SEC Rule,
to provide or cause to be provided
such financial information and operating data and notices, in such manner as may be required for purposes of
the SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that
purpose, and thereby to implement
that agreement, including provisions
for enforcement, amendment and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized to prepare, or cause to be
prepared, and to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City, a
continuing disclosure agreement or
certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of the
holders and beneficial owners of the
Series 2015 Bonds, as the case may be,
in accordance with the SEC Rule. The
performance of that agreement shall
be subject to the availability of funds
and their annual appropriation to
meet costs the City would be required
to incur to perform it. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to
establish procedures in order to

The City Record
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 12. Federal Tax Considerations.
The
representations
and
covenants in this Section apply only if
the Series 2015 Bonds are issued as
Tax-Exempt Obligations. The City
covenants that it will use, and will
restrict the use and investment of, the
proceeds of the Series 2015 Bonds and
any Notes in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(i)  the Series 2015 Bonds and any
Notes will not (A) constitute private
activity bonds or arbitrage bonds
under Sections 141 or 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of l986, as amended
(the “Code”) or (B) be treated other
than as bonds the interest on which is
excluded from gross income under
Section 103 of the Code, and (ii) the
interest on the Series 2015 Bonds and
any Notes will not be an item of tax
preference under Section 57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (i)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Series 2015 Bonds
and any Notes to be and remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes (ii) it will not
take or authorize to be taken any
actions that would adversely affect
that exclusion, and (iii) it, or persons
acting for it, will, among other acts of
compliance (A) apply the proceeds of
the Series 2015 Bonds and any Notes to
the governmental purpose of the borrowing (B) restrict the yield on
investment property (C) make timely
and adequate payments to the federal
government (D) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports and (E) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property financed with such
proceeds, all in such manner and to
the extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
The Director of Finance or any
other officer of the City having
responsibility for issuance of the
Series 2015 Bonds and any Notes is
hereby authorized (i) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Series 2015 Bonds and
any Notes as the City is permitted to
or required to make or give under the
federal income tax laws, including,
without limitation thereto, any of the
elections available under Section 148
of the Code, for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax treatment or tax status of the
Series 2015 Bonds and any Notes or
interest thereon, or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense
of such compliance, reducing rebate
amounts or payments or penalties or
making payments of special amounts
in lieu of making computations to
determine, or paying, excess earnings
as rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer
(ii) to take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make
payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and on
behalf of the City, as may be appropriate to assure the intended tax status of the Series 2015 Bonds and any
Notes and (iii) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,

1808

December 10, 2014
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Series 2015 Bonds
and any Notes, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Series 2015 Bonds
and any Notes, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they
are based, and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment
of the interest on the Series 2015
Bonds and any Notes and the tax status of the Series 2015 Bonds and any
Notes.
Section 13. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Series
2015 Bonds (a “Credit Support Instrument”). The Director of Finance may
request a rating on the Series 2015
Bonds from one or more nationally
recognized rating organizations, and
do any and all things and take any
and all actions required to secure a
Credit Support Instrument and/or a
rating or ratings on the Series 2015
Bonds. The Director of Finance may
enter into one or more agreements for
Credit Support Instruments containing terms not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance or the Indenture.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Series 2015 Bonds to the extent available and otherwise from any other
funds lawfully available that are
appropriated or shall be appropriated
for that purpose.
Section 14. Authorization of Hedging Arrangements. This Council finds
that by engaging in interest rate
hedging arrangements with respect
to Bonds the City may reduce its cost
of borrowing by optimizing the relative amounts of fixed and variable
rate obligations, or minimizing the
risk of variations in its debt service
costs, or obtaining savings by confirming rates of interest on Bonds in
advance of their issuance. To permit
the City to have the flexibility to
undertake interest rate swap, swaption, rate cap, rate collar and other
hedging transactions, from time to
time, and to establish the procedures
for approving those transactions, this
Council authorizes the signing and
delivery of one or more agreements
(each, a “Hedge Agreement”) and any
related agreements necessary for the
consummation of the transactions
contemplated by each Hedge Agreement. The authorizations in this Section are supplemental to and not in
derogation of any authority provided
by any other ordinance of this Council
concerning hedging arrangements.
Upon the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that it is to the financial advantage of
the City and in the City’s best interests that a hedging arrangement be
undertaken by the City with respect
to any Bonds issued or to be issued
under the Trust Indenture, the Director of Finance may authorize one or

December 10, 2014
more interest rate hedge transactions
in accordance with the applicable
Hedge Agreement; provided that the
term of each hedge transaction shall
not exceed the final maturity of the
Bonds to which the hedge relates.
The Director of Finance shall negotiate the terms of each Hedge Agreement. The City shall receive a written
opinion of a Financial Advisor that
the payments made or to be made by
the counterparty to the City, or by the
City to the counterparty, shall be fair
value for the Hedge Agreement, considering, among other things, the
credit of the City, the credit of the
counterparty and the terms and conditions of the Hedge Agreement. The
Director of Finance shall determine
the terms and conditions of the Hedge
Agreement, including without limitation, the time or times and procedures
for the exercise by the counterparty
or the City, as the case may be, of any
option under the Hedge Agreement,
whether the obligations of the City
under the Hedge Agreement shall be
secured by a Credit Support Instrument, and the rates to be paid by the
counterparty to the City and by the
City to the counterparty under the
Hedge Agreement in the event of the
exercise of the option. The approval
of each interest rate hedge transaction by the Director of Finance shall
be conclusively evidenced by the
signing and delivery of the applicable
Hedge Agreement by the Director of
Finance.
The Director of Finance is authorized to enter into an amendment,
modification or novation of any
Hedge Agreement or any Credit Support Instrument securing a Hedge
Agreement or to terminate any Hedge
Agreement, in whole or in part, if the
Director of Finance determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that (a) the
amendment, modification, novation or
termination is (i) justified by the corresponding benefit to the City (ii)
commercially reasonable based on
then-current market conditions, and
(iii) in the City’s best interests, and
(b) any payments made or to be made
by the counterparty to the City, or by
the City to the counterparty, are fair
value for such amendment, modification, novation or termination, given
the credit of the counterparty and the
terms and conditions of the amendment, modification, novation or termination. To the extent that any
amounts to be paid by the City in connection with any such amendment,
modification, novation or termination
are not paid from proceeds of the
Series 2015 Bonds, those amounts
shall be paid from Program Funds
and Nontax Revenues appropriated
for the purpose.
The City’s obligations under any
Hedge Agreement shall be payable
from Net Project Revenues and Nontax Revenues. The obligation of the
City to make payments under any
Hedge Agreement does not and shall
not represent or constitute a general
obligation, debt, bonded indebtedness
or a pledge of the faith and credit of
the City or the State. Nothing gives
any party to any Hedge Agreement
the right to have excises, ad valorem
or other taxes levied by the City or the
State for the payment of any amounts
due under any Hedge Agreement.
In the event the Director of Finance
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that it
is necessary to supplement or amend

The City Record
the Trust Indenture or a Supplemental Indenture in connection with any
Hedge Agreement or any amendment,
modification, novation or termination
of any Hedge Agreement, the Director
of Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver a Supplemental Indenture or
amendment of an existing Supplemental Indenture.
Section 15. Certifications of Community Improvement Corporation. Prior
to delivery of the Series 2015 Bonds,
the Core City Fund program shall be
certified to be in accordance with the
Plan by the Corporation as the agency
of the City for industrial, commercial,
distribution and research facilities
development within the City. Each
Project shall be so certified by the
Corporation prior to receiving proceeds of the Bonds by loan or otherwise.
Section 16. Captions, Headings, and
Section References. The captions and
headings in this Ordinance are solely
for convenience of reference and in no
way define, limit, or describe the
scope or intent of any Sections, subsections, paragraphs, subparagraphs,
or clauses hereof. Reference to a Section means a section of this Ordinance
unless otherwise indicated.
Section 17. Interpretation. Any provisions of the Codified Ordinances of
the City which are inconsistent with
the provisions of this Ordinance shall
not apply to the Series 2015 Bonds
authorized herein. Nothing in this
Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be applied in any
manner as would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with
respect to any outstanding bonds, the
Series 2015 Bonds, certificates of
indebtedness, other obligations, trust
indentures, or other agreements or
contracts made or entered into by the
City.
Section 18. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 19. Validity. This Council
finds and determines that this Ordinance was passed in compliance with
all applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council.
This Council further finds and determines that all acts and conditions necessary to be done or performed by the
City or to have been met precedent to
and in the issuing of the Series 2015
Bonds in order to make them legal,
valid, and binding special obligations
of the City have been performed and
have been met, or will at the time of
delivery of the Series 2015 Bonds have
been performed and have been met, in
regular and due form as required by
law, and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or
constitutional, is applicable to the
issuance of the Series 2015 Bonds.
Section 20. Compliance with Open
Meeting Requirements. This Council
finds and determines that all formal
actions of this Council and any of its
committees concerning and relating

1809

13
to the passage of this Ordinance were
taken in an open meeting of this
Council or committees, and that all
deliberations of this Council and any
of its committees that resulted in
those formal actions were in meetings
open to the public, all in compliance
with the law.
Section 21. Emergency. This Ordinance is hereby declared to be an
emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1628-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$34,000,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve facilities for the
discharge of governmental functions
or for services otherwise benefitting
public safety, health and welfare, and
authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $34,000,000 (the
“Series 2015 Bonds”) to finance the
costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Series 2015 Bonds
shall be payable from and secured by
income tax revenues of the City
remaining after deposits required
under the General Bond Ordinance
(as defined in Section 2) are made to
the escrow agent for the City’s general obligation bonds; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has certified to this Council that the estimated
life or usefulness of the improvements to be financed with the proceeds of the Series 2015 Bonds is at
least five years and the maximum
maturity of the Series 2015 Bonds is 14
years, as evidenced by the certificate
contained in File No. 1628-14-A; and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Series 2015 Bonds is
necessary to provide funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1 that are
urgently needed for the benefit of the
City, and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes an emergency measure
providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health and safety, and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed necessary to issue the Series 2015 Bonds
in an aggregate principal amount not
to exceed $34,000,000 for the purpose
of providing funds to improve facilities for the discharge of governmental functions or for services otherwise
benefiting the public safety, health
and welfare, including constructing,
reconstructing,
rehabilitating,
installing, renovating, enlarging and
otherwise improving buildings, structures and other facilities in, of and for
City Hall, police stations, fire stations, emergency medical centers, service stations, waste collection, transfer and disposal facilities, correctional facilities, health facilities, maintenance facilities, kennels, parking

14
facilities, storm water drainage facilities, centers and other facilities, the
provision of necessary fixtures, furnishings, equipment, information
technology hardware and software,
utilities, site improvements and
appurtenances, and the acquisition of
vehicles, and to pay any capitalized
interest and all expenses incurred in
connection with the issuance of the
securities, including all financing
costs within the meaning of Section
133.01(K) of the Revised Code and
such other costs of the foregoing permanent improvements that may be
financed with the proceeds of securities as permitted by Section 133.15(B)
of the Ohio Revised Code and as otherwise permitted by law.
Section 2. Authority, Security and
Source of Payment. The Series 2015
Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the
Ohio Constitution, Chapter 133 of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Charter of the
City, and this Ordinance for the purpose stated in Section  1. The Series
2015 Bonds shall be payable from and
secured by the income tax revenues of
the City on a basis subordinate to the
security given to the General Obligation Bonds of the City (“General
Obligation Bonds”) under Ordinance
No. 1749-80 passed by the Council on
October 8, 1980, as amended by Ordinance No. 1112-83 passed by the Council on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed by the Council on June
10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further
be amended from time to time in
accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond Ordinance”). The debt service on the
Series 2015 Bonds shall be payable
from income tax collections remaining after depositing with the escrow
agent under the General Bond Ordinance the amount required for the
payment of debt service on the City’s
General Obligation Bonds issued and
outstanding, from time to time, under
the General Bond Ordinance. The
Series 2015 Bonds shall be issued and
secured under the terms of the Trust
Indenture, dated as of April 1, 2008,
between the City and U.S. Bank
National Association, as trustee (the
“Trustee”), as amended by Section 6.1
of the Second Supplemental Trust
Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2010,
between the City and the Trustee
(together, the “Indenture”). The
Indenture currently secures five
series of Subordinate Lien Income
Tax Bonds issued on May 1, 2008 (collectively, the “Series 2008 Bonds”),
four series of Subordinate Lien
Income Tax Bonds issued on June 23,
2010 (collectively, the “Series 2010
Bonds”), one series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
November 29, 2012 (the “Series 2012
Bonds”), three series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
May 30, 2013 (collectively, the “Series
2013 Bonds”), three series of Subordinate Lien Income Tax Bonds issued
on February 11, 2014 (collectively, the
“Series 2014A Bonds”), and three
series of Subordinate Lien Income
Tax Bonds issued on June 11, 2014
(collectively,
the
“Series
2014B
Bonds”) and permits the issuance of
additional bonds, from time to time,
subject to certain restrictions. The
Series 2008 Bonds, the Series 2010
Bonds, the Series 2012 Bonds, the
Series 2013 Bonds, the Series 2014A
Bonds, the Series 2014B Bonds, the
Series 2015 Bonds and any additional
bonds issued under the Indenture are

The City Record
collectively referred to in this Ordinance as the “Bonds.”
Section 3. Pledge and Covenant to
Maintain Income Tax. So long as
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City pledges the
municipal income taxes of the City
and grants a lien thereon, subordinate to the lien granted in the General Bond Ordinance as security for the
General Obligation Bonds of the City
issued and outstanding under the
General Bond Ordinance, to the full
extent required to meet debt charges
payable on the Bonds issued and outstanding, from time to time, under the
Indenture. The City covenants to
appropriate
annually
sufficient
amounts from the income taxes to pay
all debt charges on the General Obligation Bonds, the Bonds outstanding
under the Indenture, any Parity
Obligations and the Unrestricted
Income Tax Obligations (each as
defined in the Indenture). The City
further covenants that so long as any
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City shall not repeal or
amend, or suffer the repeal of, any
ordinance for the levy or collection of
its income taxes in any manner or to
such extent that the City would not be
able to meet its obligations to the
holders of the Bonds.
Section 4. Terms of the Series 2015
Bonds. The Series 2015 Bonds shall be
issued in fully registered form. The
Series 2015 Bonds may be issued in
one or more series or subseries. The
Series 2015 Bonds may be delivered
only in book-entry form, and if so
delivered, shall be registered in the
name of the Depository (as defined in
the Indenture) or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the
custody of the Depository, and shall
not be transferable or exchangeable
(except for transfer to another Depository or its nominee) without further
action by the City pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture and the Seventh Supplement identified in Section
7. The Series 2015 Bonds shall be designated “Public Facilities Improvement Bonds, Series 2015” and may contain such further designation as provided in the Certificate of Award
identified below. The Series 2015
Bonds shall be issued in one lot as
fully registered Series 2015 Bonds in
denominations of $5,000 or any whole
multiple thereof. The Series 2015
Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director of Finance. The
Series 2015 Bonds shall be signed by
the officials of the City and in the
manner set forth in the Indenture.
The Series 2015 Bonds shall be
dated the date of their issuance and
delivery or such other date specified
in the certificate of award providing
for the final terms of the Series 2015
Bonds and the sale of the Series 2015
Bonds in accordance with this Ordinance (the “Certificate of Award”).
The Series 2015 Bonds shall bear
interest from their date until the principal amount is paid at the rate or
rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award, provided that the yield
(determined in accordance with the
arbitrage provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) of
the Series 2015 Bonds shall not exceed
6% per year, if sold as fixed rate
obligations. Interest on the Series
2015 Bonds shall be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1, or
such other dates specified in the Certificate of Award (the “Interest Payment Dates”).

1810

December 10, 2014
The provisions of Sections  9.98 to
9.983 of the Revised Code shall apply
to the Series 2015 Bonds and pursuant
to that authority and this Ordinance,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award,
based on the written advice of a financial advisor, that the City’s best interests will be served by causing all or a
portion of the Series 2015 Bonds to be
obligations bearing interest at variable rates. If the Director of Finance
so determines, then the Director of
Finance shall specify in the Certificate of Award the method and procedure by which the variable rate of
interest to be borne by the variable
rate Series 2015 Bonds shall be determined; provided that the variable rate
Series 2015 Bonds shall not bear interest at a rate in excess of 25% per year.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to enter into agreements in connection with the delivery of the variable
rate Series 2015 Bonds, and from time
to time thereafter so long as the variable rate Series 2015 Bonds are outstanding, with providers of Credit
Support Instruments (as defined in
Section 11) and others as may be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Series 2015 Bonds
upon tender for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment
by the City of any amounts drawn
under the Credit Support Instrument.
The Series 2015 Bonds shall mature
in the years and principal amounts
set forth in the Certificate of Award,
provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, and (ii) the final maturity
date of the Series 2015 Bonds shall be
no later than August 1, 2031; provided
that the Series 2015 Bonds shall not
have more than 14 annual principal
installments. The Series 2015 Bonds
stated to mature in any year may be
issued as serial Series 2015 Bonds or
as term Series 2015 Bonds payable
prior to stated maturity pursuant to
sinking fund redemption (the “Term
Bonds”). The Director of Finance
shall determine in the Certificate of
Award whether any of the Series 2015
Bonds shall be issued as Term Bonds,
any dates (the “Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund installments rather than at
stated maturity and the amount of
principal to be paid on each Mandatory Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
If any of the Series 2015 Bonds are
issued as Term Series 2015 Bonds, the
Term Bonds shall be redeemed pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements
at
a
redemption price of 100% of the principal amount redeemed, plus interest
accrued to the redemption date, on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates. The
aggregate of the moneys to be
deposited with the Trustee for payment of principal of and interest on
any Term Bonds shall include
amounts sufficient to redeem on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates the
principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund

December 10, 2014
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided in
the Indenture and the Seventh Supplement).
The Series 2015 Bonds may be subject to redemption prior to maturity
by and at the option of the City, in
whole or in part on any date, in whole
multiples of $5,000, on the redemption
dates and at the redemption prices
specified in the Certificate of Award,
plus, in each case, accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that
it is in the best interests of the City
(i) for some or all of the Series 2015
Bonds not to be callable prior to their
stated maturity, and (ii) for a premium to be payable on the redemption of
any Series 2015 Bonds calculated in a
manner to make the bondholder
whole for the loss of the investment or
calculated as a percentage in excess
of 100% of the principal amount
redeemed.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the City may
have the option to purchase any Bond
which is redeemable by optional
redemption at a purchase price not
less than the redemption price that
would be payable if that Bond were
called for optional redemption on the
date of the proposed purchase. That
election shall be exercised as provided in the Seventh Supplement.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the Series 2015
Bonds may be secured by a Debt Service Reserve Fund to be held by the
Trustee under the Indenture. The
principal amount of the Series 2015
Bonds may include provision for funding the Debt Service Reserve Fund
from the proceeds of the Series 2015
Bonds, subject to compliance with
applicable federal tax laws.
Section 5. Sale of Series 2015 Bonds.
The Series 2015 Bonds shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold to the purchaser identified in the Certificate of
Award (the “Original Purchaser”).
The Certificate of Award shall specify the final terms of the Series 2015
Bonds in accordance with law, the
provisions of this Ordinance, the written advice of a financial advisor
retained under authority of Section 12
and the Original Purchaser’s offer to
purchase the Series 2015 Bonds,
including: the principal amount of the
Series 2015 Bonds (which shall not
exceed the amount stated in Section  1), the purchase price (which
shall be not less than 97% of the principal amount plus accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate or
rates, the amounts and years in which
principal installments are payable
(at stated maturity or pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements), terms and conditions
under which any Series 2015 Bonds
may be redeemed prior to maturity at
the option of the City, the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Series 2015 Bonds (if different from
those set forth in Section 3) and any
other matters required in this Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the Charter, the Mayor, Director of Finance,
Director of Law, Clerk of Council and
other appropriate officers of the City

The City Record
are, and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest of
the City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Series 2015 Bonds and to make such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Series 2015 Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the Series
2015 Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript
certificates, financial statements and
other documents and instruments and
to take such actions as are necessary
or appropriate to consummate the
transactions contemplated by this
Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Series 2015 Bonds. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement between the City
and the Original Purchaser (the
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Series 2015 Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy the
Series 2015 Bonds on terms consistent
with this Ordinance and the Indenture, that are not substantially
adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Bond Purchase
Agreement or amendments to the
Bond Purchase Agreement by the
Director of Finance. It is determined
that the terms of the Series 2015
Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance
and as may be provided in or pursuant
to the Certificate of Award, the Indenture and the Seventh Supplement, are
in the best interest of the City and in
compliance with all legal requirements.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Series 2015 Bonds shall be applied as
follows:
(a) to the payment of any providers
of any Credit Support Instruments,
the fees and expenses required to be
paid by the City to obtain the Credit
Support Instrument;
(b) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Interest Payment Account in the Debt
Service Fund, the amount, if any,
received by the City upon delivery of
the Series 2015 Bonds as accrued
interest from their dated date to the
date of their delivery to the Original
Purchaser;
(c) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Debt Service Reserve Fund, any
amount identified in the Certificate of
Award as required to be deposited in
the Debt Service Reserve Fund;
(d) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Interest Payment Account in the Debt
Service Fund, the amount, if any,
received by the City upon delivery of
the Series 2015 Bonds as original
issue premium from the sale of the
Series 2015 Bonds; and
(e) to the Trustee for deposit in the
Project Fund, the balance of the proceeds.
Section 7. Supplemental Indenture.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a supplemental trust indenture

1811

15
(the “Seventh Supplement”), supplementing the Indenture to provide procedures for the authentication, registration and transfer of the Series 2015
Bonds, redemption of Series 2015
Bonds, payments under any Credit
Support Instrument authorized by
Section 11, application of the proceeds
of the Series 2015 Bonds, defeasance
of the Series 2015 Bonds, and other
terms consistent with this Ordinance
and the Certificate of Award and
approved by the Director of Finance
as not substantially adverse to the
City. The Seventh Supplement shall
be approved as to form by the Director
of Law. The determination by the
Director of Finance that the provisions of the Seventh Supplement are
not substantially adverse to the City
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the Director’s signing of the Seventh
Supplement. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law, the
Clerk of Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each
of them is, authorized to sign,
acknowledge and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, such documents, certifications and instruments
in addition to the Indenture and Seventh Supplement as may be necessary
or appropriate to issue and sell the
Series 2015 Bonds and to consummate
the transactions authorized by this
Ordinance.
Section 8. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Series 2015 Bonds for the purpose set
forth in Section 1, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $34,000,000
(the “Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth in a
certificate providing for the final
terms of the Notes and the sale of the
Notes and signed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”). The Notes, if sold as fixed
rate obligations, shall bear interest at
such rate, not exceeding 3% per year,
and shall be payable on the date or
dates, as shall be determined by the
Director of Finance of the City in the
Note Certificate of Award; shall be
dated their date of issuance; shall
mature on the date set forth in the
Note Certificate of Award; shall be
subject to redemption by the City at
any time prior to maturity without
penalty, unless the Director of
Finance, based on the advice of a
financial advisor, determines that it
is in the best interest of the City in
order to enhance the marketability of
the Notes, that the Notes not be
redeemable prior to maturity or that a
premium be paid on their prior
redemption; shall be designated “Public Facilities Improvement Bond
Anticipation Notes” or as otherwise
provided in the Note Certificate of
Award; shall be issued in such numbers and denominations as may be
requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form (which
may be in a book entry only system).
The provisions of Sections 9.98 to 9.983
of the Revised Code shall apply to the
Notes and pursuant to that authority
and this Ordinance, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, that the
City’s best interests will be served by
causing all or a portion of the Notes to
be obligations bearing interest at
variable rates. If the Director of

16
Finance so determines, then the
Director of Finance shall specify in
the Certificate of Award the method
and procedure by which the variable
rate of interest to be borne by the variable rate Notes shall be determined;
provided that the variable rate Notes
shall not bear interest at a rate in
excess of 25% per year. The Director
of Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements in connection with the
delivery of the variable rate Notes,
and from time to time thereafter so
long as the variable rate Notes are
outstanding, with providers of Credit
Support Instruments (as defined in
Section 11) and others as may be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Notes upon tender
for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment by the City
of any amounts drawn under the Credit Support Instrument. The Trustee
shall be the authenticating agent,
registrar, transfer agent and paying
agent for the Notes. The Notes shall
be signed by the officials of the City
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture. The Notes shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold at not less
than par and accrued interest to one
or more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note Purchaser”) in the principal amount set
forth in a certificate of award to be
executed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
The proceeds of such sale shall be
paid into the proper fund or funds set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 9. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Series 2015 Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or the
Series 2015 Bonds, as the case may be,
and any necessary supplements and
to authorize the use and distribution
of each Official Statement and any
supplements. The Director of Finance
is authorized to sign on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity each
Official Statement and any supplements approved by her. The Director
of Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City and in
her official capacity such certificates
in connection with the accuracy of
each Official Statement and any supplements as may, in her judgment, be
necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also authorized to
determine and certify on behalf of the
City that such disclosure document is
“deemed final” by the City within the
meaning of Securities and Exchange
Commission Rule 15c2-12 the “SEC

The City Record
Rule.” The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract for services for
the production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Series 2015 Bonds, the
City agrees, in accordance with, and
as the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Series
2015 Bonds under the SEC Rule, to
provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that
purpose, and thereby to implement
that agreement, including provisions
for enforcement, amendment and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized to prepare, or cause to be
prepared, and to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City, a
continuing disclosure agreement or
certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of the
holders and beneficial owners of the
Notes or the Series 2015 Bonds, as the
case may be, in accordance with the
SEC Rule. The performance of that
agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual
appropriation to meet costs the City
would be required to incur to perform
it. The Director of Finance is further
authorized to establish procedures in
order to ensure compliance by the
City with its continuing disclosure
agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices.
Section 10. Federal Tax Considerations. The City covenants that it will
use, and will restrict the use and
investment of, the proceeds of the
Series 2015 Bonds and any Notes in
such manner and to such extent as
may be necessary so that (i)  the
Series 2015 Bonds and any Notes will
not (A) constitute private activity
bonds or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141 or 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of l986, as amended (the
“Code”) or (B) be treated other than
as bonds the interest on which is
excluded from gross income under
Section 103 of the Code, and (ii) the
interest on the Series 2015 Bonds and
any Notes will not be an item of tax
preference under Section 57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (i)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Series 2015 Bonds
and any Notes to be and remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes (ii) it will not
take or authorize to be taken any
actions that would adversely affect
that exclusion, and (iii) it, or persons
acting for it, will, among other acts of
compliance (A) apply the proceeds of
the Series 2015 Bonds and any Notes to
the governmental purpose of the borrowing (B) restrict the yield on
investment property (C) make timely
and adequate payments to the federal
government (D) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports and (E) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property financed with such
proceeds, all in such manner and to
the extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.

1812

December 10, 2014
The Director of Finance or any
other officer of the City having
responsibility for issuance of the
Series 2015 Bonds and any Notes is
hereby authorized (i) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Series 2015 Bonds and
any Notes as the City is permitted to
or required to make or give under the
federal income tax laws, including,
without limitation thereto, any of the
elections available under Section 148
of the Code, for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax treatment or tax status of the
Series 2015 Bonds and any Notes or
interest thereon, or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense
of such compliance, reducing rebate
amounts or payments or penalties or
making payments of special amounts
in lieu of making computations to
determine, or paying, excess earnings
as rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer
(ii) to take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make
payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and on
behalf of the City, as may be appropriate to assure the intended tax status of the Series 2015 Bonds and any
Notes and (iii) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Series 2015 Bonds
and any Notes, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Series 2015 Bonds
and any Notes, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they
are based, and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment
of the interest on the Series 2015
Bonds and any Notes and the tax status of the Series 2015 Bonds and any
Notes.
Section 11. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Series
2015 Bonds or any Notes (a “Credit
Support Instrument”). The Director of
Finance may request a rating on the
Series 2015 Bonds or Notes from one or
more nationally recognized rating
organizations, and do any and all
things and take any and all actions
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings
on the Series 2015 Bonds or Notes. The
Director of Finance may enter into
one or more agreements for Credit
Support
Instruments
containing
terms not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance or the Indenture.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Series 2015 Bonds or Notes to the
extent available and otherwise from
any other funds lawfully available
that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose.

December 10, 2014
Section 12. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 13. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and that all
deliberations of this Council any of its
committees that resulted in these formal actions were held, in meetings
open to the public in compliance with
all legal requirements, including,
without limitation, Section 121.22 of
the Revised Code.
Section 14. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Series 2015 Bonds and the Notes
in order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required by law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional, will
have been exceeded in the issuance of
the Series 2015 Bonds or the Notes. It
is further found and determined, and
is represented and recited, that the
provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33
(including the provisions of Section
33 with respect to readings on three
separate days or dispensing with
such readings by a two-thirds vote of
all members of the Council), 36, 37, 48
and all other applicable provisions of
the City’s Charter and the rules of this
Council have been fully complied
with and this Ordinance was passed
in conformity therewith.
Section 15. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
authorized to forward a certified copy
of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of Award for the Series 2015
Bonds and any Note Certificate of
Award to the County Fiscal Officer of
Cuyahoga County and to secure a
receipt therefor.
Section 16. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is declared to be an
independent section or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other
evidence of legislative intent, it is
declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such section or
part of a section or any provision
thereof, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person
or circumstance, other than those as
to which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 17. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants

The City Record
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio. Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance shall not apply to the
Series 2015 Bonds or the Notes authorized herein.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding Series 2015 Bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration was
duly received by the City prior to the
passage of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1629-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$11,000,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve municipal parks
and recreation facilities and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $11,000,000 (the
“Series 2015 Bonds”) to finance the
costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Series 2015 Bonds
shall be payable from and secured by
income tax revenues of the City
remaining after deposits required
under the General Bond Ordinance
(as defined in Section 2) are made to
the escrow agent for the City’s general obligation bonds; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has certified to this Council that the estimated
life or usefulness of the improvements to be financed with the proceeds of the Series 2015 Bonds is at
least five years and the maximum
maturity of the Series 2015 Bonds is 26
years, as evidenced by the certificate
contained in File No. 1629-14-A; and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Series 2015 Bonds is
necessary to provide funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1 that are
urgently needed for the benefit of the
City, and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes an emergency measure
providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health and safety, and for the usual

1813

17
daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed necessary to issue the Series 2015 Bonds
in an aggregate principal amount not
to exceed $11,000,000 for the purpose
of providing funds to improve municipal parks and recreation facilities by
constructing, reconstructing, rehabilitating,
installing,
renovating,
enlarging and otherwise improving
parks and recreation centers and
areas, pools, aquatic facilities, skating rinks, greenhouses, bicycle paths,
playgrounds,
playfields,
tracks,
fields and related buildings, structures, walkways, pavement, safety
surfaces and facilities, and providing
necessary water systems, drainage,
lighting, signage, fixtures, furnishings, equipment, safety modifications
and site improvements, together with
all necessary and incidental appurtenances and the acquisition of any
required real estate and interests in
real estate and the demolition of any
existing buildings, structures, walkways and facilities, and to pay any
capitalized interest and all expenses
incurred in connection with the
issuance of the securities, including
all financing costs within the meaning of Section 133.01(K) of the
Revised Code and such other costs of
the foregoing permanent improvements that may be financed with the
proceeds of securities as permitted by
Section 133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised
Code and as otherwise permitted by
law.
Section 2. Authority, Security and
Source of Payment. The Series 2015
Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the
Ohio Constitution, Chapter 133 of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Charter of the
City, and this Ordinance for the purpose stated in Section  1. The Series
2015 Bonds shall be payable from and
secured by the income tax revenues of
the City on a basis subordinate to the
security given to the General Obligation Bonds of the City (“General
Obligation Bonds”) under Ordinance
No. 1749-80 passed by the Council on
October 8, 1980, as amended by Ordinance No. 1112-83 passed by the Council on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed by the Council on June
10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further
be amended from time to time in
accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond Ordinance”). The debt service on the
Series 2015 Bonds shall be payable
from income tax collections remaining after depositing with the escrow
agent under the General Bond Ordinance the amount required for the
payment of debt service on the City’s
General Obligation Bonds issued and
outstanding, from time to time, under
the General Bond Ordinance. The
Series 2015 Bonds shall be issued and
secured under the terms of the Trust
Indenture, dated as of April 1, 2008,
between the City and U.S. Bank
National Association, as trustee (the
“Trustee”), as amended by Section 6.1
of the Second Supplemental Trust
Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2010,
between the City and the Trustee
(together, the “Indenture”). The
Indenture currently secures five
series of Subordinate Lien Income
Tax Bonds issued on May 1, 2008 (collectively, the “Series 2008 Bonds”),
four series of Subordinate Lien
Income Tax Bonds issued on June 23,

18
2010 (collectively, the “Series 2010
Bonds”), one series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
November 29, 2012 (the “Series 2012
Bonds”), three series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
May 30, 2013 (collectively, the “Series
2013 Bonds”), three series of Subordinate Lien Income Tax Bonds issued
on February 11, 2014 (collectively, the
“Series 2014A Bonds”), and three
series of Subordinate Lien Income
Tax Bonds issued on June 11, 2014
(collectively,
the
“Series
2014B
Bonds”) and permits the issuance of
additional bonds, from time to time,
subject to certain restrictions. The
Series 2008 Bonds, the Series 2010
Bonds, the Series 2012 Bonds, the
Series 2013 Bonds, the Series 2014A
Bonds, the Series 2014B Bonds, the
Series 2015 Bonds and any additional
bonds issued under the Indenture are
collectively referred to in this Ordinance as the “Bonds.”
Section 3. Pledge and Covenant to
Maintain Income Tax. So long as
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City pledges the
municipal income taxes of the City
and grants a lien thereon, subordinate to the lien granted in the General Bond Ordinance as security for the
General Obligation Bonds of the City
issued and outstanding under the
General Bond Ordinance, to the full
extent required to meet debt charges
payable on the Bonds issued and outstanding, from time to time, under the
Indenture. The City covenants to
appropriate
annually
sufficient
amounts from the income taxes to pay
all debt charges on the General Obligation Bonds, the Bonds outstanding
under the Indenture, any Parity
Obligations and the Unrestricted
Income Tax Obligations (each as
defined in the Indenture). The City
further covenants that so long as any
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City shall not repeal or
amend, or suffer the repeal of, any
ordinance for the levy or collection of
its income taxes in any manner or to
such extent that the City would not be
able to meet its obligations to the
holders of the Bonds.
Section 4. Terms of the Series 2015
Bonds. The Series 2015 Bonds shall be
issued in fully registered form. The
Series 2015 Bonds may be issued in
one or more series or subseries. The
Series 2015 Bonds may be delivered
only in book-entry form, and if so
delivered, shall be registered in the
name of the Depository (as defined in
the Indenture) or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the
custody of the Depository, and shall
not be transferable or exchangeable
(except for transfer to another Depository or its nominee) without further
action by the City pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture and the Seventh Supplement identified in Section
7. The Series 2015 Bonds shall be designated “Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds, Series 2015”
and may contain such further designation as provided in the Certificate
of Award identified below. The Series
2015 Bonds shall be issued in one lot
as fully registered Series 2015 Bonds
in denominations of $5,000 or any
whole multiple thereof. The Series
2015 Bonds shall be numbered as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Series 2015 Bonds shall
be signed by the officials of the City
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture.

The City Record
The Series 2015 Bonds shall be
dated the date of their issuance and
delivery or such other date specified
in the certificate of award providing
for the final terms of the Series 2015
Bonds and the sale of the Series 2015
Bonds in accordance with this Ordinance (the “Certificate of Award”).
The Series 2015 Bonds shall bear
interest from their date until the principal amount is paid at the rate or
rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award, provided that the yield
(determined in accordance with the
arbitrage provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) of
the Series 2015 Bonds shall not exceed
6% per year, if sold as fixed rate
obligations. Interest on the Series
2015 Bonds shall be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1, or
such other dates specified in the Certificate of Award (the “Interest Payment Dates”).
The provisions of Sections  9.98 to
9.983 of the Revised Code shall apply
to the Series 2015 Bonds and pursuant
to that authority and this Ordinance,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award,
based on the written advice of a financial advisor, that the City’s best interests will be served by causing all or a
portion of the Series 2015 Bonds to be
obligations bearing interest at variable rates. If the Director of Finance
so determines, then the Director of
Finance shall specify in the Certificate of Award the method and procedure by which the variable rate of
interest to be borne by the variable
rate Series 2015 Bonds shall be determined; provided that the variable rate
Series 2015 Bonds shall not bear interest at a rate in excess of 25% per year.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to enter into agreements in connection with the delivery of the variable
rate Series 2015 Bonds, and from time
to time thereafter so long as the variable rate Series 2015 Bonds are outstanding, with providers of Credit
Support Instruments (as defined in
Section 11) and others as may be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Series 2015 Bonds
upon tender for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment
by the City of any amounts drawn
under the Credit Support Instrument.
The Series 2015 Bonds shall mature
in the years and principal amounts
set forth in the Certificate of Award,
provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, and (ii) the final maturity
date of the Series 2015 Bonds shall be
no later than August 1, 2043; provided
that the Series 2015 Bonds shall not
have more than 26 annual principal
installments. The Series 2015 Bonds
stated to mature in any year may be
issued as serial Series 2015 Bonds or
as term Series 2015 Bonds payable
prior to stated maturity pursuant to
sinking fund redemption (the “Term
Bonds”). The Director of Finance
shall determine in the Certificate of
Award whether any of the Series 2015
Bonds shall be issued as Term Bonds,
any dates (the “Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable pursuant to mandatory sink-

1814

December 10, 2014
ing fund installments rather than at
stated maturity and the amount of
principal to be paid on each Mandatory Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
If any of the Series 2015 Bonds are
issued as Term Series 2015 Bonds, the
Term Bonds shall be redeemed pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements
at
a
redemption price of 100% of the principal amount redeemed, plus interest
accrued to the redemption date, on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates. The
aggregate of the moneys to be
deposited with the Trustee for payment of principal of and interest on
any Term Bonds shall include
amounts sufficient to redeem on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates the
principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided in
the Indenture and the Seventh Supplement).
The Series 2015 Bonds may be subject to redemption prior to maturity
by and at the option of the City, in
whole or in part on any date, in whole
multiples of $5,000, on the redemption
dates and at the redemption prices
specified in the Certificate of Award,
plus, in each case, accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that
it is in the best interests of the City
(i) for some or all of the Series 2015
Bonds not to be callable prior to their
stated maturity, and (ii) for a premium to be payable on the redemption of
any Series 2015 Bonds calculated in a
manner to make the bondholder
whole for the loss of the investment or
calculated as a percentage in excess
of 100% of the principal amount
redeemed.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the City may
have the option to purchase any Bond
which is redeemable by optional
redemption at a purchase price not
less than the redemption price that
would be payable if that Bond were
called for optional redemption on the
date of the proposed purchase. That
election shall be exercised as provided in the Seventh Supplement.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the Series 2015
Bonds may be secured by a Debt Service Reserve Fund to be held by the
Trustee under the Indenture. The
principal amount of the Series 2015
Bonds may include provision for funding the Debt Service Reserve Fund
from the proceeds of the Series 2015
Bonds, subject to compliance with
applicable federal tax laws.
Section 5. Sale of Series 2015 Bonds.
The Series 2015 Bonds shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold to the purchaser identified in the Certificate of
Award (the “Original Purchaser”).
The Certificate of Award shall specify the final terms of the Series 2015
Bonds in accordance with law, the
provisions of this Ordinance, the written advice of a financial advisor
retained under authority of Section 12
and the Original Purchaser’s offer to
purchase the Series 2015 Bonds,

December 10, 2014
including: the principal amount of the
Series 2015 Bonds (which shall not
exceed the amount stated in Section  1), the purchase price (which
shall be not less than 97% of the principal amount plus accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate or
rates, the amounts and years in which
principal installments are payable
(at stated maturity or pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements), terms and conditions
under which any Series 2015 Bonds
may be redeemed prior to maturity at
the option of the City, the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Series 2015 Bonds (if different from
those set forth in Section 3) and any
other matters required in this Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the Charter, the Mayor, Director of Finance,
Director of Law, Clerk of Council and
other appropriate officers of the City
are, and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest of
the City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Series 2015 Bonds and to make such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Series 2015 Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the Series
2015 Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript
certificates, financial statements and
other documents and instruments and
to take such actions as are necessary
or appropriate to consummate the
transactions contemplated by this
Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Series 2015 Bonds. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement between the City
and the Original Purchaser (the
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Series 2015 Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy the
Series 2015 Bonds on terms consistent
with this Ordinance and the Indenture, that are not substantially
adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Bond Purchase
Agreement or amendments to the
Bond Purchase Agreement by the
Director of Finance. It is determined
that the terms of the Series 2015
Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance
and as may be provided in or pursuant
to the Certificate of Award, the Indenture and the Seventh Supplement, are
in the best interest of the City and in
compliance with all legal requirements.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Series 2015 Bonds shall be applied as
follows:
(a) to the payment of any providers
of any Credit Support Instruments,
the fees and expenses required to be
paid by the City to obtain the Credit
Support Instrument;
(b) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Interest Payment Account in the Debt
Service Fund, the amount, if any,

The City Record
received by the City upon delivery of
the Series 2015 Bonds as accrued
interest from their dated date to the
date of their delivery to the Original
Purchaser;
(c) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Debt Service Reserve Fund, any
amount identified in the Certificate of
Award as required to be deposited in
the Debt Service Reserve Fund;
(d) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Interest Payment Account in the Debt
Service Fund, the amount, if any,
received by the City upon delivery of
the Series 2015 Bonds as original
issue premium from the sale of the
Series 2015 Bonds; and
(e) to the Trustee for deposit in the
Project Fund, the balance of the proceeds.
Section 7. Supplemental Indenture.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a supplemental trust indenture
(the “Seventh Supplement”), supplementing the Indenture to provide procedures for the authentication, registration and transfer of the Series 2015
Bonds, redemption of Series 2015
Bonds, payments under any Credit
Support Instrument authorized by
Section 11, application of the proceeds
of the Series 2015 Bonds, defeasance
of the Series 2015 Bonds, and other
terms consistent with this Ordinance
and the Certificate of Award and
approved by the Director of Finance
as not substantially adverse to the
City. The Seventh Supplement shall
be approved as to form by the Director
of Law. The determination by the
Director of Finance that the provisions of the Seventh Supplement are
not substantially adverse to the City
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the Director’s signing of the Seventh
Supplement. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law, the
Clerk of Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each
of them is, authorized to sign,
acknowledge and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, such documents, certifications and instruments
in addition to the Indenture and Seventh Supplement as may be necessary
or appropriate to issue and sell the
Series 2015 Bonds and to consummate
the transactions authorized by this
Ordinance.
Section 8. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Series 2015 Bonds for the purpose set
forth in Section 1, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $11,000,000
(the “Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth in a
certificate providing for the final
terms of the Notes and the sale of the
Notes and signed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”). The Notes, if sold as fixed
rate obligations, shall bear interest at
such rate, not exceeding 3% per year,
and shall be payable on the date or
dates, as shall be determined by the
Director of Finance of the City in the
Note Certificate of Award; shall be
dated their date of issuance; shall
mature on the date set forth in the
Note Certificate of Award; shall be
subject to redemption by the City at
any time prior to maturity without
penalty, unless the Director of
Finance, based on the advice of a
financial advisor, determines that it
is in the best interest of the City in
order to enhance the marketability of

1815

19
the Notes, that the Notes not be
redeemable prior to maturity or that a
premium be paid on their prior
redemption; shall be designated
“Parks and Recreation Facilities
Bond Anticipation Notes” or as otherwise provided in the Note Certificate
of Award; shall be issued in such numbers and denominations as may be
requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form (which
may be in a book entry only system).
The provisions of Sections 9.98 to 9.983
of the Revised Code shall apply to the
Notes and pursuant to that authority
and this Ordinance, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, that the
City’s best interests will be served by
causing all or a portion of the Notes to
be obligations bearing interest at
variable rates. If the Director of
Finance so determines, then the
Director of Finance shall specify in
the Certificate of Award the method
and procedure by which the variable
rate of interest to be borne by the variable rate Notes shall be determined;
provided that the variable rate Notes
shall not bear interest at a rate in
excess of 25% per year. The Director
of Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements in connection with the
delivery of the variable rate Notes,
and from time to time thereafter so
long as the variable rate Notes are
outstanding, with providers of Credit
Support Instruments (as defined in
Section 11) and others as may be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Notes upon tender
for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment by the City
of any amounts drawn under the Credit Support Instrument. The Trustee
shall be the authenticating agent,
registrar, transfer agent and paying
agent for the Notes. The Notes shall
be signed by the officials of the City
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture. The Notes shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold at not less
than par and accrued interest to one
or more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note Purchaser”) in the principal amount set
forth in a certificate of award to be
executed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
The proceeds of such sale shall be
paid into the proper fund or funds set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 9. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Series 2015 Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on

20
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or the
Series 2015 Bonds, as the case may be,
and any necessary supplements and
to authorize the use and distribution
of each Official Statement and any
supplements. The Director of Finance
is authorized to sign on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity each
Official Statement and any supplements approved by her. The Director
of Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City and in
her official capacity such certificates
in connection with the accuracy of
each Official Statement and any supplements as may, in her judgment, be
necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also authorized to
determine and certify on behalf of the
City that such disclosure document is
“deemed final” by the City within the
meaning of Securities and Exchange
Commission Rule 15c2-12 the “SEC
Rule.” The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract for services for
the production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Series 2015 Bonds, the
City agrees, in accordance with, and
as the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Series
2015 Bonds under the SEC Rule, to
provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that
purpose, and thereby to implement
that agreement, including provisions
for enforcement, amendment and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized to prepare, or cause to be
prepared, and to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City, a
continuing disclosure agreement or
certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of the
holders and beneficial owners of the
Notes or the Series 2015 Bonds, as the
case may be, in accordance with the
SEC Rule. The performance of that
agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual
appropriation to meet costs the City
would be required to incur to perform
it. The Director of Finance is further
authorized to establish procedures in
order to ensure compliance by the
City with its continuing disclosure
agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices.
Section 10. Federal Tax Considerations. The City covenants that it will
use, and will restrict the use and
investment of, the proceeds of the
Series 2015 Bonds and any Notes in
such manner and to such extent as
may be necessary so that (i)  the
Series 2015 Bonds and any Notes will
not (A) constitute private activity
bonds or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141 or 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of l986, as amended (the
“Code”) or (B) be treated other than
as bonds the interest on which is
excluded from gross income under
Section 103 of the Code, and (ii) the
interest on the Series 2015 Bonds and
any Notes will not be an item of tax
preference under Section 57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (i)
it will take or cause to be taken such

The City Record
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Series 2015 Bonds
and any Notes to be and remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes (ii) it will not
take or authorize to be taken any
actions that would adversely affect
that exclusion, and (iii) it, or persons
acting for it, will, among other acts of
compliance (A) apply the proceeds of
the Series 2015 Bonds and any Notes to
the governmental purpose of the borrowing (B) restrict the yield on
investment property (C) make timely
and adequate payments to the federal
government (D) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports and (E) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property financed with such
proceeds, all in such manner and to
the extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
The Director of Finance or any
other officer of the City having
responsibility for issuance of the
Series 2015 Bonds and any Notes is
hereby authorized (i) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Series 2015 Bonds and
any Notes as the City is permitted to
or required to make or give under the
federal income tax laws, including,
without limitation thereto, any of the
elections available under Section 148
of the Code, for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax treatment or tax status of the
Series 2015 Bonds and any Notes or
interest thereon, or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense
of such compliance, reducing rebate
amounts or payments or penalties or
making payments of special amounts
in lieu of making computations to
determine, or paying, excess earnings
as rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer
(ii) to take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make
payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and on
behalf of the City, as may be appropriate to assure the intended tax status of the Series 2015 Bonds and any
Notes and (iii) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Series 2015 Bonds
and any Notes, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Series 2015 Bonds
and any Notes, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they
are based, and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment
of the interest on the Series 2015
Bonds and any Notes and the tax status of the Series 2015 Bonds and any
Notes.
Section 11. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Series
2015 Bonds or any Notes (a “Credit
Support Instrument”). The Director of
Finance may request a rating on the

1816

December 10, 2014
Series 2015 Bonds or Notes from one or
more nationally recognized rating
organizations, and do any and all
things and take any and all actions
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings
on the Series 2015 Bonds or Notes. The
Director of Finance may enter into
one or more agreements for Credit
Support
Instruments
containing
terms not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance or the Indenture.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Series 2015 Bonds or Notes to the
extent available and otherwise from
any other funds lawfully available
that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 12. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 13. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and that all
deliberations of this Council any of its
committees that resulted in these formal actions were held, in meetings
open to the public in compliance with
all legal requirements, including,
without limitation, Section 121.22 of
the Revised Code.
Section 14. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Series 2015 Bonds and the Notes
in order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required by law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional, will
have been exceeded in the issuance of
the Series 2015 Bonds or the Notes. It
is further found and determined, and
is represented and recited, that the
provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33
(including the provisions of Section
33 with respect to readings on three
separate days or dispensing with
such readings by a two-thirds vote of
all members of the Council), 36, 37, 48
and all other applicable provisions of
the City’s Charter and the rules of this
Council have been fully complied
with and this Ordinance was passed
in conformity therewith.
Section 15. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
authorized to forward a certified copy
of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of Award for the Series 2015
Bonds and any Note Certificate of
Award to the County Fiscal Officer of
Cuyahoga County and to secure a
receipt therefor.

December 10, 2014
Section 16. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is declared to be an
independent section or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other
evidence of legislative intent, it is
declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such section or
part of a section or any provision
thereof, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person
or circumstance, other than those as
to which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 17. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio. Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance shall not apply to the
Series 2015 Bonds or the Notes authorized herein.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding Series 2015 Bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration was
duly received by the City prior to the
passage of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1630-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$42,400,000 for the purpose of providing funds for bridges and roadways,
and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $42,400,000 (the
“Series 2015 Bonds”) to finance the
costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Series 2015 Bonds
shall be payable from and secured by
income tax revenues of the City
remaining after deposits required
under the General Bond Ordinance
(as defined in Section 2) are made to

The City Record
the escrow agent for the City’s general obligation bonds; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has certified to this Council that the estimated
life or usefulness of the improvements to be financed with the proceeds of the Series 2015 Bonds is at
least five years and the maximum
maturity of the Series 2015 Bonds is 21
years, as evidenced by the certificate
contained in File No. 1630-14-A; and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Series 2015 Bonds is
necessary to provide funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1 that are
urgently needed for the benefit of the
City, and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes an emergency measure
providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health and safety, and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed necessary to issue the Series 2015 Bonds
in an aggregate principal amount not
to exceed $42,400,000 for the purpose
of providing funds to improve the
municipal street system and related
facilities, including streets, expressways, roadways, driveways, driveway approaches, retaining walls,
underground vaults, sidewalks and
pedestrian walkways, by acquiring,
constructing, reconstructing, opening, extending, widening, grading,
draining, paving, sealing, resurfacing, striping, lighting and curbing,
removing or reconstructing underground vaults to preserve the public
right of way; installing gutters, onstreet bicycle facilities, bicycle paths,
bike parking facilities, sidewalks
and related pedestrian improvements;
constructing, installing and improving bus stations, ADA ramps and
streetscape entryways; constructing
and improving culverts; constructing
sanitary sewers, storm sewers and
water lines; resetting and constructing catch basins and other storm
water drainage facilities; constructing, reconstructing, replacing, renovating and rehabilitating bridges;
acquiring any real estate and interests in real estate, including easements, necessary for such purpose;
and installing street lighting and
signs, signals, markings and other
devices for traffic control purposes,
together with all necessary and incidental appurtenances, and to pay any
capitalized interest and all expenses
incurred in connection with the
issuance of the securities, including
all financing costs within the meaning of Section 133.01(K) of the
Revised Code and such other costs of
the foregoing permanent improvements that may be financed with the
proceeds of securities as permitted by
Section 133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised
Code and as otherwise permitted by
law.
Section 2. Authority, Security and
Source of Payment. The Series 2015
Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the
Ohio Constitution, Chapter 133 of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Charter of the
City, and this Ordinance for the purpose stated in Section  1. The Series
2015 Bonds shall be payable from and
secured by the income tax revenues of
the City on a basis subordinate to the
security given to the General Obligation Bonds of the City (“General
Obligation Bonds”) under Ordinance

1817

21
No. 1749-80 passed by the Council on
October 8, 1980, as amended by Ordinance No. 1112-83 passed by the Council on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed by the Council on June
10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further
be amended from time to time in
accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond Ordinance”). The debt service on the
Series 2015 Bonds shall be payable
from income tax collections remaining after depositing with the escrow
agent under the General Bond Ordinance the amount required for the
payment of debt service on the City’s
General Obligation Bonds issued and
outstanding, from time to time, under
the General Bond Ordinance. The
Series 2015 Bonds shall be issued and
secured under the terms of the Trust
Indenture, dated as of April 1, 2008,
between the City and U.S. Bank
National Association, as trustee (the
“Trustee”), as amended by Section 6.1
of the Second Supplemental Trust
Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2010,
between the City and the Trustee
(together, the “Indenture”). The
Indenture currently secures five
series of Subordinate Lien Income
Tax Bonds issued on May 1, 2008 (collectively, the “Series 2008 Bonds”),
four series of Subordinate Lien
Income Tax Bonds issued on June 23,
2010 (collectively, the “Series 2010
Bonds”), one series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
November 29, 2012 (the “Series 2012
Bonds”), three series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
May 30, 2013 (collectively, the “Series
2013 Bonds”), three series of Subordinate Lien Income Tax Bonds issued
on February 11, 2014 (collectively, the
“Series 2014A Bonds”), and three
series of Subordinate Lien Income
Tax Bonds issued on June 11, 2014
“Series
2014B
(collectively,
the
Bonds”) and permits the issuance of
additional bonds, from time to time,
subject to certain restrictions. The
Series 2008 Bonds, the Series 2010
Bonds, the Series 2012 Bonds, the
Series 2013 Bonds, the Series 2014A
Bonds, the Series 2014B Bonds, the
Series 2015 Bonds and any additional
bonds issued under the Indenture are
collectively referred to in this Ordinance as the “Bonds.”
Section 3. Pledge and Covenant to
Maintain Income Tax. So long as
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City pledges the
municipal income taxes of the City
and grants a lien thereon, subordinate to the lien granted in the General Bond Ordinance as security for the
General Obligation Bonds of the City
issued and outstanding under the
General Bond Ordinance, to the full
extent required to meet debt charges
payable on the Bonds issued and outstanding, from time to time, under the
Indenture. The City covenants to
appropriate
annually
sufficient
amounts from the income taxes to pay
all debt charges on the General Obligation Bonds, the Bonds outstanding
under the Indenture, any Parity
Obligations and the Unrestricted
Income Tax Obligations (each as
defined in the Indenture). The City
further covenants that so long as any
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City shall not repeal or
amend, or suffer the repeal of, any
ordinance for the levy or collection of
its income taxes in any manner or to
such extent that the City would not be

22
able to meet its obligations to the
holders of the Bonds.
Section 4. Terms of the Series 2015
Bonds. The Series 2015 Bonds shall be
issued in fully registered form. The
Series 2015 Bonds may be issued in
one or more series or subseries. The
Series 2015 Bonds may be delivered
only in book-entry form, and if so
delivered, shall be registered in the
name of the Depository (as defined in
the Indenture) or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the
custody of the Depository, and shall
not be transferable or exchangeable
(except for transfer to another Depository or its nominee) without further
action by the City pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture and the Seventh Supplement identified in Section
7. The Series 2015 Bonds shall be designated
“Bridges
and
Roadway
Improvement Bonds, Series 2015” and
may contain such further designation
as provided in the Certificate of
Award identified below. The Series
2015 Bonds shall be issued in one lot
as fully registered Series 2015 Bonds
in denominations of $5,000 or any
whole multiple thereof. The Series
2015 Bonds shall be numbered as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Series 2015 Bonds shall
be signed by the officials of the City
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture.
The Series 2015 Bonds shall be
dated the date of their issuance and
delivery or such other date specified
in the certificate of award providing
for the final terms of the Series 2015
Bonds and the sale of the Series 2015
Bonds in accordance with this Ordinance (the “Certificate of Award”).
The Series 2015 Bonds shall bear
interest from their date until the principal amount is paid at the rate or
rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award, provided that the yield
(determined in accordance with the
arbitrage provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) of
the Series 2015 Bonds shall not exceed
6% per year, if sold as fixed rate
obligations. Interest on the Series
2015 Bonds shall be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1, or
such other dates specified in the Certificate of Award (the “Interest Payment Dates”).
The provisions of Sections  9.98 to
9.983 of the Revised Code shall apply
to the Series 2015 Bonds and pursuant
to that authority and this Ordinance,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award,
based on the written advice of a financial advisor, that the City’s best interests will be served by causing all or a
portion of the Series 2015 Bonds to be
obligations bearing interest at variable rates. If the Director of Finance
so determines, then the Director of
Finance shall specify in the Certificate of Award the method and procedure by which the variable rate of
interest to be borne by the variable
rate Series 2015 Bonds shall be determined; provided that the variable rate
Series 2015 Bonds shall not bear interest at a rate in excess of 25% per year.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to enter into agreements in connection with the delivery of the variable
rate Series 2015 Bonds, and from time
to time thereafter so long as the variable rate Series 2015 Bonds are outstanding, with providers of Credit
Support Instruments (as defined in
Section 11) and others as may be
of
determined
by
the
Director

The City Record
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Series 2015 Bonds
upon tender for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment
by the City of any amounts drawn
under the Credit Support Instrument.
The Series 2015 Bonds shall mature
in the years and principal amounts
set forth in the Certificate of Award,
provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, and (ii) the final maturity
date of the Series 2015 Bonds shall be
no later than August 1, 2038; provided
that the Series 2015 Bonds shall not
have more than 21 annual principal
installments. The Series 2015 Bonds
stated to mature in any year may be
issued as serial Series 2015 Bonds or
as term Series 2015 Bonds payable
prior to stated maturity pursuant to
sinking fund redemption (the “Term
Bonds”). The Director of Finance
shall determine in the Certificate of
Award whether any of the Series 2015
Bonds shall be issued as Term Bonds,
any dates (the “Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund installments rather than at
stated maturity and the amount of
principal to be paid on each Mandatory Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
If any of the Series 2015 Bonds are
issued as Term Series 2015 Bonds, the
Term Bonds shall be redeemed pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking Fund
Requirements
at
a
Redemption
redemption price of 100% of the principal amount redeemed, plus interest
accrued to the redemption date, on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates. The
aggregate of the moneys to be
deposited with the Trustee for payment of principal of and interest on
any Term Bonds shall include
amounts sufficient to redeem on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates the
principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
the
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided in
the Indenture and the Seventh Supplement).
The Series 2015 Bonds may be subject to redemption prior to maturity
by and at the option of the City, in
whole or in part on any date, in whole
multiples of $5,000, on the redemption
dates and at the redemption prices
specified in the Certificate of Award,
plus, in each case, accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that
it is in the best interests of the City
(i) for some or all of the Series 2015
Bonds not to be callable prior to their
stated maturity, and (ii) for a premium to be payable on the redemption of
any Series 2015 Bonds calculated in a
manner to make the bondholder
whole for the loss of the investment or
calculated as a percentage in excess
of 100% of the principal amount
redeemed.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the City may
have the option to purchase any Bond
which is redeemable by optional

1818

December 10, 2014
redemption at a purchase price not
less than the redemption price that
would be payable if that Bond were
called for optional redemption on the
date of the proposed purchase. That
election shall be exercised as provided in the Seventh Supplement.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the Series 2015
Bonds may be secured by a Debt Service Reserve Fund to be held by the
Trustee under the Indenture. The
principal amount of the Series 2015
Bonds may include provision for funding the Debt Service Reserve Fund
from the proceeds of the Series 2015
Bonds, subject to compliance with
applicable federal tax laws.
Section 5. Sale of Series 2015 Bonds.
The Series 2015 Bonds shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold to the purchaser identified in the Certificate of
Award (the “Original Purchaser”).
The Certificate of Award shall specify the final terms of the Series 2015
Bonds in accordance with law, the
provisions of this Ordinance, the written advice of a financial advisor
retained under authority of Section 12
and the Original Purchaser’s offer to
purchase the Series 2015 Bonds,
including: the principal amount of the
Series 2015 Bonds (which shall not
exceed the amount stated in Section  1), the purchase price (which
shall be not less than 97% of the principal amount plus accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate or
rates, the amounts and years in which
principal installments are payable
(at stated maturity or pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements), terms and conditions
under which any Series 2015 Bonds
may be redeemed prior to maturity at
the option of the City, the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Series 2015 Bonds (if different from
those set forth in Section 3) and any
other matters required in this Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the Charter, the Mayor, Director of Finance,
Director of Law, Clerk of Council and
other appropriate officers of the City
are, and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest of
the City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Series 2015 Bonds and to make such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Series 2015 Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the Series
2015 Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript
certificates, financial statements and
other documents and instruments and
to take such actions as are necessary
or appropriate to consummate the
transactions contemplated by this
Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Series 2015 Bonds. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement between the City
and the Original Purchaser (the
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”),

December 10, 2014
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Series 2015 Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy the
Series 2015 Bonds on terms consistent
with this Ordinance and the Indenture, that are not substantially
adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Bond Purchase
Agreement or amendments to the
Bond Purchase Agreement by the
Director of Finance. It is determined
that the terms of the Series 2015
Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance
and as may be provided in or pursuant
to the Certificate of Award, the Indenture and the Seventh Supplement, are
in the best interest of the City and in
compliance with all legal requirements.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Series 2015 Bonds shall be applied as
follows:
(a) to the payment of any providers
of any Credit Support Instruments,
the fees and expenses required to be
paid by the City to obtain the Credit
Support Instrument;
(b) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Interest Payment Account in the Debt
Service Fund, the amount, if any,
received by the City upon delivery of
the Series 2015 Bonds as accrued
interest from their dated date to the
date of their delivery to the Original
Purchaser;
(c) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Debt Service Reserve Fund, any
amount identified in the Certificate of
Award as required to be deposited in
the Debt Service Reserve Fund;
(d) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Interest Payment Account in the Debt
Service Fund, the amount, if any,
received by the City upon delivery of
the Series 2015 Bonds as original
issue premium from the sale of the
Series 2015 Bonds; and
(e) to the Trustee for deposit in the
Project Fund, the balance of the proceeds.
Section 7. Supplemental Indenture.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a supplemental trust indenture
(the “Seventh Supplement”), supplementing the Indenture to provide procedures for the authentication, registration and transfer of the Series 2015
Bonds, redemption of Series 2015
Bonds, payments under any Credit
Support Instrument authorized by
Section 11, application of the proceeds
of the Series 2015 Bonds, defeasance
of the Series 2015 Bonds, and other
terms consistent with this Ordinance
and the Certificate of Award and
approved by the Director of Finance
as not substantially adverse to the
City. The Seventh Supplement shall
be approved as to form by the Director
of Law. The determination by the
Director of Finance that the provisions of the Seventh Supplement are
not substantially adverse to the City
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the Director’s signing of the Seventh
Supplement. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law, the
Clerk of Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each
of them is, authorized to sign,
acknowledge and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, such documents, certifications and instruments

The City Record
in addition to the Indenture and Seventh Supplement as may be necessary
or appropriate to issue and sell the
Series 2015 Bonds and to consummate
the transactions authorized by this
Ordinance.
Section 8. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Series 2015 Bonds for the purpose set
forth in Section 1, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $42,400,000
(the “Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth in a
certificate providing for the final
terms of the Notes and the sale of the
Notes and signed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”). The Notes, if sold as fixed
rate obligations, shall bear interest at
such rate, not exceeding 3% per year,
and shall be payable on the date or
dates, as shall be determined by the
Director of Finance of the City in the
Note Certificate of Award; shall be
dated their date of issuance; shall
mature on the date set forth in the
Note Certificate of Award; shall be
subject to redemption by the City at
any time prior to maturity without
penalty, unless the Director of
Finance, based on the advice of a
financial advisor, determines that it
is in the best interest of the City in
order to enhance the marketability of
the Notes, that the Notes not be
redeemable prior to maturity or that a
premium be paid on their prior
redemption; shall be designated
“Bridges and Roadway Improvement
Bond Anticipation Notes” or as otherwise provided in the Note Certificate
of Award; shall be issued in such numbers and denominations as may be
requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form (which
may be in a book entry only system).
The provisions of Sections 9.98 to 9.983
of the Revised Code shall apply to the
Notes and pursuant to that authority
and this Ordinance, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, that the
City’s best interests will be served by
causing all or a portion of the Notes to
be obligations bearing interest at
variable rates. If the Director of
Finance so determines, then the
Director of Finance shall specify in
the Certificate of Award the method
and procedure by which the variable
rate of interest to be borne by the variable rate Notes shall be determined;
provided that the variable rate Notes
shall not bear interest at a rate in
excess of 25% per year. The Director
of Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements in connection with the
delivery of the variable rate Notes,
and from time to time thereafter so
long as the variable rate Notes are
outstanding, with providers of Credit
Support Instruments (as defined in
Section 11) and others as may be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Notes upon tender
for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment by the City
of any amounts drawn under the Credit Support Instrument. The Trustee
shall be the authenticating agent,

1819

23
registrar, transfer agent and paying
agent for the Notes. The Notes shall
be signed by the officials of the City
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture. The Notes shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold at not less
than par and accrued interest to one
or more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note Purchaser”) in the principal amount set
forth in a certificate of award to be
executed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
The proceeds of such sale shall be
paid into the proper fund or funds set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 9. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Series 2015 Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or the
Series 2015 Bonds, as the case may be,
and any necessary supplements and
to authorize the use and distribution
of each Official Statement and any
supplements. The Director of Finance
is authorized to sign on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity each
Official Statement and any supplements approved by her. The Director
of Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City and in
her official capacity such certificates
in connection with the accuracy of
each Official Statement and any supplements as may, in her judgment, be
necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also authorized to
determine and certify on behalf of the
City that such disclosure document is
“deemed final” by the City within the
meaning of Securities and Exchange
Commission Rule 15c2-12 the “SEC
Rule.” The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract for services for
the production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Series 2015 Bonds, the
City agrees, in accordance with, and
as the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Series
2015 Bonds under the SEC Rule, to
provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that
purpose, and thereby to implement
that agreement, including provisions
for enforcement, amendment and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized to prepare, or cause to be
prepared, and to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City, a
continuing disclosure agreement or
certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of the

24
holders and beneficial owners of the
Notes or the Series 2015 Bonds, as the
case may be, in accordance with the
SEC Rule. The performance of that
agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual
appropriation to meet costs the City
would be required to incur to perform
it. The Director of Finance is further
authorized to establish procedures in
order to ensure compliance by the
City with its continuing disclosure
agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices.
Section 10. Federal Tax Considerations. The City covenants that it will
use, and will restrict the use and
investment of, the proceeds of the
Series 2015 Bonds and any Notes in
such manner and to such extent as
may be necessary so that (i)  the
Series 2015 Bonds and any Notes will
not (A) constitute private activity
bonds or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141 or 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of l986, as amended (the
“Code”) or (B) be treated other than
as bonds the interest on which is
excluded from gross income under
Section 103 of the Code, and (ii) the
interest on the Series 2015 Bonds and
any Notes will not be an item of tax
preference under Section 57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (i)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Series 2015 Bonds
and any Notes to be and remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes (ii) it will not
take or authorize to be taken any
actions that would adversely affect
that exclusion, and (iii) it, or persons
acting for it, will, among other acts of
compliance (A) apply the proceeds of
the Series 2015 Bonds and any Notes to
the governmental purpose of the borrowing (B) restrict the yield on
investment property (C) make timely
and adequate payments to the federal
government (D) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports and (E) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property financed with such
proceeds, all in such manner and to
the extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
The Director of Finance or any
other officer of the City having
responsibility for issuance of the
Series 2015 Bonds and any Notes is
hereby authorized (i) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Series 2015 Bonds and
any Notes as the City is permitted to
or required to make or give under the
federal income tax laws, including,
without limitation thereto, any of the
elections available under Section 148
of the Code, for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax treatment or tax status of the
Series 2015 Bonds and any Notes or
interest thereon, or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense
of such compliance, reducing rebate
amounts or payments or penalties or
making payments of special amounts
in lieu of making computations to
determine, or paying, excess earnings
as rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer
(ii) to take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make

The City Record
payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and on
behalf of the City, as may be appropriate to assure the intended tax status of the Series 2015 Bonds and any
Notes and (iii) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Series 2015 Bonds
and any Notes, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Series 2015 Bonds
and any Notes, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they
are based, and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment
of the interest on the Series 2015
Bonds and any Notes and the tax status of the Series 2015 Bonds and any
Notes.
Section 11. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Series
2015 Bonds or any Notes (a “Credit
Support Instrument”). The Director of
Finance may request a rating on the
Series 2015 Bonds or Notes from one or
more nationally recognized rating
organizations, and do any and all
things and take any and all actions
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings
on the Series 2015 Bonds or Notes. The
Director of Finance may enter into
one or more agreements for Credit
Support
Instruments
containing
terms not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance or the Indenture.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Series 2015 Bonds or Notes to the
extent available and otherwise from
any other funds lawfully available
that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 12. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 13. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and that all
deliberations of this Council any of its
committees that resulted in these formal actions were held, in meetings
open to the public in compliance with
all legal requirements, including,
without limitation, Section 121.22 of
the Revised Code.

1820

December 10, 2014
Section 14. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Series 2015 Bonds and the Notes
in order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required by law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional, will
have been exceeded in the issuance of
the Series 2015 Bonds or the Notes. It
is further found and determined, and
is represented and recited, that the
provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33
(including the provisions of Section
33 with respect to readings on three
separate days or dispensing with
such readings by a two-thirds vote of
all members of the Council), 36, 37, 48
and all other applicable provisions of
the City’s Charter and the rules of this
Council have been fully complied
with and this Ordinance was passed
in conformity therewith.
Section 15. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
authorized to forward a certified copy
of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of Award for the Series 2015
Bonds and any Note Certificate of
Award to the County Fiscal Officer of
Cuyahoga County and to secure a
receipt therefor.
Section 16. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is declared to be an
independent section or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other
evidence of legislative intent, it is
declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such section or
part of a section or any provision
thereof, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person
or circumstance, other than those as
to which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 17. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio. Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance shall not apply to the
Series 2015 Bonds or the Notes authorized herein.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding Series 2015 Bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration was
duly received by the City prior to the
passage of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City

December 10, 2014
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1631-14.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to The Board of Park
Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District to encroach
into the public right-of-way of Scranton Road by installing, using, and
maintaining an overhead pedestrian
bridge as part of Segment 1A of the
Lake Link Trail; authorizing the
Director of Public Works to execute a
deed of easement for certain easement interests in property needed to
implement the improvement and
declaring the easement interest not
needed for the City’s public use; and
authorizing one or more agreements
to implement Segment 1A of the Lake
Link Trail Project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit, revocable at the will of Council, to The Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan
Park District, 4101 Fulton Parkway,
Cleveland, Ohio 44144 (“Metroparks”),
to encroach into the public right-ofway
above
Scranton
Road
by
installing, using, and maintaining an
overhead pedestrian bridge, at the following location:
Encroachment
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
70, also being part of Scranton Road
(60 feet wide), and further described
as follows:
Commencing at the intersection of
the easterly right of way of said
Scranton Road with the northeasterly
right of way of University Road (60
feet wide); Thence North 03° 22' 38"
East, 168.45 feet along the easterly
right of way of said Scranton Road to
the Point of Beginning:
Course #1
Thence North 50° 11' 51" West, 74.57
feet to the westerly right of way of
said Scranton Road to a point;
Course #2
Thence North 03° 22' 38" East, 7.36
feet along the westerly right of way
of said Scranton Road to an angle
point in said right of way;
Course #3
Thence North 01° 40' 55" West, 32.14
feet along the westerly right of way
of said Scranton Road to a point;

The City Record

25

Course #4
Thence South 50° 11' 51" East, 78.09
feet to the easterly right of way of
said Scranton Road;

Course #2
Thence North 01° 40' 55" West, 30.00
feet along the easterly right of way of
said Scranton Road;

Course #5
Thence South 03° 22' 38" West, 37.28
feet along the easterly right of way of
said Scranton Road to the Point of
Beginning and containing 0.052 acres.
This legal description was prepared from record information by Jarrod R. Schnell, P.S. # 8623, for Cleveland Metroparks.
The bearings are based on the easterly right of way of Scranton Road
being North 03° 22' 38" East as shown
on said Consolidation and Lot Split,
recorded in Volume 363 Page 45, of
Cuyahoga County Map Records.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Metroparks may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Capital Projects. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans and
specifications first approved by the
Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Metroparks shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building
Permits, and shall enter into a bridge
maintenance agreement with City
before
installing
the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
Metroparks has obtained and will
maintain insurance acceptable to the
City that will protect the City against
any loss that may result from the
encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry
to
the
encroachment
location(s).
Section 5. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
an easement interest in the followingdescribed property is not needed for
the City’s public use:

Course #3
Thence South 51° 30' 00" East,
130.00 feet;

PERMANENT EASEMENT
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
70, also being part of “Parcel 2” as
described in deed to City of Cleveland
recorded in AFN 201409230510, Cuyahoga County Deed Records, and further described as follows:
Commencing at the intersection of
the easterly right of way of Scranton
Road (60 feet wide) with the northeasterly right of way of University
Road (60 feet wide); Thence along the
easterly right of way of said Scranton
Road, North 03° 22' 38" East, 110.00
feet to the Point of Beginning:
Course #1
Thence North 03° 22' 38" East,
112.74 feet along the easterly right of
way of said Scranton Road to an
angle point in said right of way;

1821

Course #4
Thence South 38° 41' 11" East,
254.52 feet;
Course #5
Thence South 23° 00' 00" West, 60.00
feet to the northeasterly line of land
described in deed to City of Cleveland
recorded in Volume 3359 Page 261,
Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Course #6
Thence North 51° 39' 37" West,
310.00 feet along the northeasterly
line of said City of Cleveland land and
along the northeasterly line of land
described in deed to Scranton-Averell,
Inc. recorded in Volume 11674 Page
493, Cuyahoga County Deed Records,
to the Point of Beginning and containing 0.732 acres.
This legal description was prepared from record information by Jarrod R. Schnell, P.S. # 8623, for Cleveland Metroparks.
The bearings are based on the easterly right of way of Scranton Road
being North 03° 22' 38" East as shown
on the Consolidation and Lot Split,
recorded in Volume 363 Page 45, of
Cuyahoga County Map Records.
Section 6. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to convey a permanent,
exclusive easement interest in the
above-described City property to
Metroparks at no cost, subject to any
conditions stated in this ordinance
including specifically, but not limited
to, Metroparks’ construction and operation of the Lake Link Trail and
bridge improvement and maintenance of the improvement in perpetuity at no cost to the City , and in consideration of the public benefit to
Cleveland residents of the use of the
multi-purpose trail improvement,
which is determined to be fair market
value.
Section 7. That the easement shall
be exclusive and the purpose of the
shall
be
to
allow
easement
Metroparks to construct, operate and
maintain a trail and bridge abutment
on the Scranton Road Towpath Trail
parcel just north of University Road
which will connect the Towpath Trail
with Metroparks’ Rivergate Park and
the City’s Crooked River Skate Park
near the Columbus Road Lift Bridge
in connection with Segment 1A of the
Lake Link Trail improvement.
Section 8. That the duration of the
easement shall be perpetual; that the
easement may include reasonable
rights-of-entry to the City and to
Metroparks; that the easement shall
not be assignable without the consent
of the Director of Public Works; that
the easement shall require that
Metroparks provide reasonable insurance, and pay any applicable taxes
and assessments.
Section 9. That the conveyance
referred to above shall be made by
official deed of easement prepared by
the Director of Law and executed by
the Director of Public Works on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed of easement shall contain any
additional terms and conditions as

26
are required to protect the interest of
the City. The Directors of Public
Works and Law are authorized to execute any other documents, including
without limitation, contracts for right
of entry, as may be necessary to effect
the purpose and intent of this ordinance.
Section 10. That the Directors of
Capital Projects and Public Works
are authorized to enter into one or
more agreements as needed to effectuate this ordinance including, but
not limited to, a bridge maintenance
agreement with Metroparks.
Section 11. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Capital Projects, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and
Properties, Development Planning
and Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 1646-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 343.24, establishing a
Regional Visitor Destination Overlay
District (RVD).
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 343.24 to read as follows:
Section 343.24 Regional Visitor Destination Overlay District (RVD)
(a) Purpose. Regional Visitor Destination Overlay Districts are established for the purpose of permitting
signage that will contribute to the
visual vibrancy and economic vitality
of compact urban districts that draw
large numbers of visitors from
throughout the region to patronize
entertainment, restaurant and hotel
uses.
(b) District Definition. A Regional
Visitor Destination Overlay District
is an area at least 15 acres but not
more than 100 acres in size that
includes (as currently existing or
under
construction)
restaurants
and/or entertainment venues constituting at least 75,000 square feet of
floor area.
(c) District Designation. Each
Regional Visitor Destination Overlay
District shall be established pursuant
to legislation adopted by City Council
in accordance with the regulations of
Chapter 333 and the provisions of this
section. Each Regional Visitor Destination Overlay District shall be
shown on the Zoning Map of the City
of Cleveland as an overlay district,
supplementing the regulations of the
applicable underlying zoning districts. A Regional Visitor Destination
Overlay District shall be mapped only
where the underlying zoning districts
permit entertainment, restaurant and
hotel uses.
(d) Applicability to Signs. Signs
located in a Regional Visitor Destination Overlay District shall be governed
by the provisions of this section.

The City Record
(e) Design Review. All permit
applications for signs in a Regional
Visitor Destination Overlay District
shall be reviewed by the City Planning Commission or Landmarks Commission, as applicable, in accordance
with the design guidelines of division
341.07(i) for review by the City Planning Commission and with the provisions of Chapter 161 for review by the
Landmarks Commission, as well as in
accordance with any design guidelines adopted by the applicable Commission for the subject district and in
accordance with the conditions herein.
(f) Size and Placement of Signs. In
reviewing permit applications for
signs in a Regional Visitor Destination Overlay District, the City Planning Commission or Landmarks Commission, as applicable, may approve
signs that are larger than that otherwise permitted or are placed in locations not otherwise permitted if the
Commission determines that the
placement and design of such signage
are compatible with the subject building and nearby properties and will
enhance the visual image of the
Regional Visitor Destination Overlay
District.
(g) Animated and Electronically
Changeable Signs. In the interest of
enhancing the vibrancy of the
Regional Visitor Destination Overlay
District, signs that display animated
images or electronically changeable
copy, including off-premises advertising, are permitted and their use is
encouraged, subject to approval by
the City Planning Commission or
Landmarks Commission, as applicable, in accordance with applicable
design guidelines.
(h) Appeals. Appeals from the decision of the City Planning Commission
or Landmarks Commission to approve
or disapprove permit applications for
signs shall be made to the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on
Development Planning and Sustainability.
Ord. No. 1647-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance rescinding Ordinance No. 650-08, passed May
5, 2008.
Whereas, on May 5, 2008, this Council passed Ordinance No. 650-08 to
authorize the petition for the creation
of the Flats East Bank Community
Authority, in compliance with Chapter 349 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, subsequent to passage of
such ordinance, Chapter 349 was
amended and the development plan
was further developed such that new
authority is required and Ordinance
No. 650-08 is no longer pertinent or
necessary; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

1822

December 10, 2014
Section 1. That this Council hereby
rescinds Ordinance No. 650-08, passed
May 5, 2008.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 1648-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development and the Clerk of Council to
execute and sign, on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, the Petition for the
creation of the Flats East Bank Community Authority; and to determine
that the petition for the creation of
the Flats East Bank Community
Authority complies with the requirements of Section 349.03(A) of the
Revised Code.
Whereas, based on expressed development interest in the area of Cleveland generally bounded (a) on the
north by the CSX railroad tracks (b)
on the east by the easterly lines of
Permanent Parcel Nos. 101-12-004 and
101-12-007 and 101-01-005 (c) on the
south by (i) the northerly right-ofway line of Main Avenue (ii) the
southerly line of Permanent Parcel
Nos. 101-13-007 and 101-13-008, and (iii)
the southerly line of the Main Avenue
Bridge, and (d) on the West by the
Cuyahoga River (as more accurately
defined in the Petition hereinafter
referenced, the “District”), the City of
Cleveland (the “City”) engaged in a
cooperative dialogue with the development community, the ClevelandCuyahoga County Port Authority (the
“Port Authority”) and various other
interested persons with respect to the
possible development and redevelopment of the District; and
Whereas, in furtherance of the
development and redevelopment of
the District, the City further engaged
in a cooperative dialogue with Flats
East Development LLC, an Ohio limited liability company (the “Developer”); and
Whereas, acting under the authority of Ordinance No. 579-06, the City
entered into that certain Project
Development Agreement effective as
of May 22, 2006 with Flats East Development LLC and the Port Authority
(as amended from time to time, the
“Project Development Agreement”);
and
Whereas, the Developer has performed the necessary analysis to produce a viable, market-based development program for the District as
required by Chapter 349 of the
Revised Code; and
Whereas, the Developer is a “developer” within the meaning of Section
349.01(E) of the Revised Code and
will carry out a “new community
development program” for the District within the meaning of Section
349.01(B) of the Revised Code; and
Whereas, a proposed petition (the
“Petition”) to create the Flats East
Bank
Community
Authority
is
presently on file with the Clerk of
Cleveland City Council (“Clerk of
Council”); and

December 10, 2014
Whereas, subject to the subsequent
filing of the Petition with the Cuyahoga County Council, Cleveland City
Council, as the “organizational board
of commissioners” as that term is
defined in Section 349.01(F) of the
Revised Code, is required to determine whether such petition complies
with Section 349.03(A) of the Revised
Code as to form and substance; and
Whereas, upon the determination of
City Council that the Petition is sufficient and has been filed in accordance
with Section 349.03(A) of the Revised
Code, City Council is required to fix
the time and place of a hearing on the
Petition for the establishment of a
new community authority, which
time shall not be less than thirty (30)
days nor more than forty-five (45)
days after the filing date of the Petition when all “proximate cities” have
signed the Petition; and
Whereas, an emergency exists in
that it is immediately necessary to
authorize the Director of Economic
Development and the Clerk of Council
to execute and sign the aforementioned Petition so that the Flats East
Bank Community Authority may proceed to creation expeditiously and in
order to comply with the conditions
set forth in Chapter 349 of the Revised
Code in order to facilitate the development and redevelopment of that
portion of the City comprising the District, said immediate action being in
the interest of the City in order to preserve, enhance and protect public
health, peace, property and safety,
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development and the Clerk of
Council are authorized to execute and
sign on behalf of the City of Cleveland and Cleveland City Council the
Petition
no
later
than
[date]
_____________, for the purpose of filing that Petition with the Cuyahoga
County Council under Chapter 349 of
the Revised Code to create as a new
community authority known as the
Flats East Bank Community Authority. The signature of the Director of
Economic Development and the Clerk
of Council on that Petition shall indicate the approval of that Petition by
the “proximate city” (within the
meaning of section 349.01(m) of the
Revised Code).
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
shall file the Petition, File No.
_________ with the Cuyahoga County
Council no later than the close of business on [enter date one day following
date
from
Section
1]__________________________.
Section 3. That this Council has
examined the Petition to create the
Flats East Bank Community Authority and determines that such Petition
complies with the requirements of
Section 349.03(A) of the Revised Code
as to form and substance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.

The City Record
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 1624-14.
By Council Members Dow, K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of
Logan Court N.E.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Logan Court N.E., as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 401, also
known as being part of the Logan
Company’s Subdivision as shown in
Volume 40, Page 20 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records (C.C.M.R.) and
more fully bounded and described as
follows:
BEGINNING AT A POINT at the
intersection of the southerly Right-ofway of Logan Court (40 feet wide) as
shown in the Marsh and Cody Brothers’ Re-Subdivision recorded in Volume 14, Page 48 of C.C.M.R., with the
easterly Right-of-Way of East 97th
Street (formerly known as North
Logan Avenue) (56 feet wide);
Thence North 00° 02' 30" East,
along said easterly Right-of-Way, 8.00
feet to a point;
Thence South 89° 56' 38" East, parallel with the centerline of Logan
Court, as aforesaid, 189.91 feet to the
PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BEGINNING
of a parcel of land herein described;
Thence Easterly 66.18 feet along
the arc of a curve deflecting to the left
having a radius of 172.00 feet and a
chord of 65.77 feet which bears North
79° 02' 01" East to a point of reverse
curvature;
Thence Easterly 53.53 feet along
the arc of a curve deflecting to the
right having a radius of 141.50 feet
and a chord of 53.21 feet which bears
North 78° 50' 58" East to a point of
tangency;
Thence North 89° 41' 16" East, 13.06
feet to a point;
Thence South 00° 11' 02" West, 23.00
feet to a point;
Thence North 89° 56' 38" West,
129.77 feet to the PRINCIPAL PLACE
OF BEGINNING, be the same more or
less, and containing 0.0363 Acres of
land, subject to all legal highways
and easements, according to a survey
prepared by Louise A. Veverka, dated
May 5th, 2014.
Bearings are based on the centerline of East 97th Street being North
00° 02' 30" East as shown in Volume
127, Page 12 of C.C.M.R. and are to
indicate angles only.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately

1823

27
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1618-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf
of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to
enter into one or more contracts with
Court Community Service for professional services necessary to place
criminal defendants in community
service, and for placement in the
Cleveland Work Crew Program, both
as referred by the Court, for the Cleveland Municipal Court, each for a period of one year, with a one-year option
to renew, exercisable by the Director
of Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts with
Court Community Service for professional services necessary to arrange
community service for persons the
Court refers for a period of one year,
commencing January 1, 2015, with one
(1) option to renew for one year, exercisable by the Director of Finance.
The cost of the contract shall not
exceed $276,000, and if the option is
exercised, the cost for the optional
year shall not exceed $281,000.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts with
Court Community Service for professional services necessary to arrange
community service for persons the
Court refers in the Cleveland Work
Crew Program for a period of one
year, commencing January 1, 2015,
with one (1) option to renew for one
year, exercisable by the Director of
Finance. The cost of the contract
shall not exceed $159,500, and if the
option is exercised, the cost for the
optional year shall not exceed
$162,500.
Section 3. The cost of the contracts
shall be paid from funds appropriated
for this purpose in budget year 2015.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

28
Ord. No. 1619-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 8 of Ordinance No. 265-14,
passed March 17, 2014, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1001-14, passed August
20, 2014, relating to applying for and
accepting a grant from the U.S.
Department of Health and Human
Services for the Moms First Program
and authorizing contracts in connection with the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 8 of Ordinance No. 265-14, passed March 17,
2014, as amended by Ordinance No.
1001-14, passed August 20, 2014, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 8. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds that are accepted under this ordinance and from
Fund No. 01-5005-6320, RQS 5005, RL
2014-96 and from funds appropriated
for this purpose in budget year 2015.
Section 2. That existing Section 8 of
Ordinance No. 265-14, passed March 17,
2014, as amended by Ordinance No.
1001-14, passed August 20, 2014, is
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1620-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a Capital Improvement - Community Recreation Project grant from the State of
Ohio
Department
of
Natural
Resources to assist with constructing
certain infrastructure improvements
in the Flats East Bank development
area; and authorizing the Director to
enter into one or more contracts with
Flats East Development LLC, or its
designee, to implement the project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
apply for and accept a Capital
Improvement - Community Recreation Project grant in an amount up
to $3,500,000, from the State of Ohio
Department of Natural Resources, to
assist with constructing certain infrastructure improvements in the Flats
East Bank development area, to be
used to implement the project as
described in the executive summary

The City Record
below; that the Director is authorized
to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds
under the grant; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
described in the executive summary
for the grant contained in the file
described below and in any subsequent grant amendments, which
amendments will be filed with Council.
Section 2. That the executive summary for the grant, File No. 1620-14-A,
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, as presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
the public hearing on this legislation,
is approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts with
Flats East Development, LLC, or its
designee, to implement the grant project.
Section 4. That the contract or contracts authorized by this ordinance
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 5. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized will be
paid from the fund or subfunds that
are credited the proceeds of the grant
accepted under this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1621-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 29814, passed April 21, 2014, relating to
the transfer of responsibility of
answering cellular 9-1-1 calls made
within the City of Cleveland from the
County to the City.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 1 and 2 of
Ordinance No. 298-14, passed April 21,
2014, are amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
an agreement with Cuyahoga County
to transfer the responsibility of
directly answering 9-1-1 cellular calls
made within the City of Cleveland
from the County’s CECOMS to the City
of Cleveland Department of Public
Safety’s PSAP for a period of one
year, with two two-year options to
renew, exercisable by the Director of
Public Safety (the “Transfer Agreement”).
Section 2. That the Transfer Agreement shall provide that the City
receive up to $600,000 annually from
the County to support the City’s
increased responsibilities following
the transfer. That under the Transfer

1824

December 10, 2014
Agreement, the parties agree that the
amount of the County’s payments to
the City under the Transfer Agreement is contingent upon the amount
of funding the County receives from
the State of Ohio Wireless Government Assistance Fund.
Section 2. That existing Sections 1
and 2 of Ordinance No. 298-14, passed
April 21, 2014, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1622-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into an agreement with Cuyahoga County and the Regional Forensic Science Laboratory of the Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner’s
Office to provide law enforcementrelated scientific testing services, for
a term of eleven years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
an agreement with Cuyahoga County
and the Regional Forensic Science
Laboratory of the Cuyahoga County
Medical Examiner’s Office to provide
law enforcement-related scientific
testing services, for a term of eleven
years, beginning January 1, 2015.
Section 2. That the cost of the first
year of the agreement shall be paid
from funds appropriated for this purpose in budget year 2015. The remaining years of the contract will be paid
through annual appropriations.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1623-14.
By Council Members Dow, K. Johnson, Brancatelli, Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Logan Court N.E.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
1502-13, adopted November 25,2013,
this Council declared its intention to
vacate a portion of Logan Court N.E.;
and

December 10, 2014
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on the
abutting property owners affected by
the resolution which stated a time
and place when objections would be
heard before the Board of Revision of
Assessments; and
Whereas, on April 10, 2014, the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating
a portion of the above and that it will
not be detrimental to the general
interest and that it should be made;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
The southerly 8.00 feet of Logan
Court N.E. (40.00 feet wide)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
of part of the original 100 acre lot 401
and being the southerly 8.00 feet of
Logan Court N.E. (40.00 feet wide)
extending easterly from the east
right of way of East 97th Street (56.00
feet wide) to its easterly terminus.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved to
the City of Cleveland an easement of
full width as described above for
Dominion East Ohio Gas, Cleveland
Public Power and the Illuminating
Company
That no structures shall be erected
on the premises described in this easement except those constructed under
the approval of, and in compliance
with, plans approved by Dominion
East Ohio Gas, Cleveland Public
Power, the Illuminating Company
and the City of Cleveland.
Section
3.
That
provided
all
required
approvals
have
been
obtained, the Manager of Engineering and Construction is directed to
record the vacation plat in the office
of the Recorder of Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit a copy of this
ordinance to the Fiscal Officer of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1632-14.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with the Cleveland
Tenants Organization for the Tenant
Advocacy and Rental Information
Center Program through the use of
Ward 16 Neighborhood Equity Funds.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development be authorized to enter into an
agreement with the Cleveland Tenants Organization for the Tenant
Advocacy and Rental Information
Center Program for the public purpose of providing advocacy and counseling support for city of Cleveland
residents in the area of housing services through the use of Ward 16
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $25,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1633-14.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with L’Arche Cleveland
for the Developmental Disabilities
Social Services Support Program
through the use of Ward 16 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development be authorized to enter into an
agreement with L’Arche Cleveland
for the Developmental Disabilities
Social Services Support Program for
the public purpose of providing social
support services to Cleveland residents with developmental disabilities
through the use of Ward 16 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $25,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. Director of Law shall prepare and approve said contract and
that the contract shall contain such
terms and provisions as he deems necessary to protect the City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.

1825

29
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1634-14.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with the Greater Cleveland Sports Commission for the Urban
Youth Initiative Program through the
use of Ward 16 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development be authorized to enter into an
agreement with the Greater Cleveland Sports Commission for the Urban
Youth Initiative Program for the public purpose of providing educational
sessions on bicycle safety, healthy
eating, exercise and bicycle maintenance to youths residing in the city of
Cleveland through the use of Ward 16
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $25,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1635-14.
By Council Members Zone, Keane,
Kelley and Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance an Emergency Ordinance authorizing the
Director of the Department of Public
Works to enter into agreement with
Irish American Archives Society, Inc.
for the Johnny Kilbane Sculpture Project through the use of Wards 15, 13,
16, and 17 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Public Works is hereby authorized to enter into agreement
with Irish American Archives Society, Inc. for the Johnny Kilbane
Sculpture Project for the public purpose of honoring the historic achievements of Cleveland boxer Johnny Kilbane, world featherweight champion
from 1912 - 1923 through the use of

The City Record

30
Ward(s) 15, 13, 16, and 17 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $19,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1636-14.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution urging
the Social Security Administration to
place a moratorium on Social Security
Office closings and service cuts.
Whereas,
the
Social
Security
Administration (SSA) has seen its
budget frozen or reduced in each of
the past several years resulting in
11,000 fewer staff to handle an ever
increasing work load of retirement
and disability applications, as well
as the other essential services that
SSA field offices provide to the public;  and
Whereas, in recent years, SSA has
closed more than 70 field offices and
hundreds of contract stations around
the country, and reduced hours so
that offices are open to the public
only until noon on Wednesdays and
close 1
hours early on other weekdays; and
Whereas, these closures represent
a 28 percent reduction in time spent
helping people face-to-face to gain
access to their benefits under Social
Security; and
Whereas, Social Security beneficiaries have always received, have
had the right to receive, and indeed
have already paid to receive, the
quality
personal
service
highest
offered to more than 53 million program participants; and
Whereas, high-quality service is
threatened both by budget cuts and
by a concerted effort on the part of
the agency to nearly eliminate field
offices and personal service as
described in a recent document produced by a seven member panel of
the National Academy of Public
Administration under contract to the
Security
Administration,
Social
which included three former highranking SSA officials;  and
Whereas,
the
SSA
2014-2018
Agency Strategic Plan specifically
cites the “Vision 2025” plan referenced above, and thereby has signaled high-level support for this
approach that is hostile to the interests of the American people; and
Whereas,
public
confidence
in
SSA’s ability to deliver on its

promises is being threatened by the
continuous announcements of office
closures,
reduced
office
hours
around
the
nation,
and
service
reductions at field offices; and
Whereas, SSA has decided to stop
providing two essential documents
at SSA field offices, the Social Security Number Printout and the Benefit Verification statement, and 11
million people who came in last
year to get these documents will be
told they must go online and print
them out, request that prospective
employers verify their Social Security Numbers, ask other serviceproviders to get the information
themselves, or contract the Call Center and wait a week or more to
receive
these
vital
verifications
needed to receive assistance from
other service-providers or to verify
eligibility to work; and
Whereas, this Council supports
the Alliance for Retired Americans’
work for the passage of legislation
introduced by Rep. Brian Higgins
(D-NY) and John Duncan (R-TN),
H.R.
3997,
the
Social
Security
Accountability
Act
of
2014,
to
impose an immediate moratorium on
further closures until SSA explains
its plan for future closings, the reasoning for it, and how it will mitigate the impact on the public; and
Whereas, this Council supports
the work of the Alliance for Retired
Americans, the American Federation
of Government Employees (AFGE)
and other unions to work with the
Social Security Works Coalition, the
Leadership Council of Aging Organizations and community organizations to expand the resources and
front-line staffing available for SSA
operations and fight to restore field
office service delivery as the most
critical part of the SSA infrastructure; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the Social Security Administration to
place a moratorium on Social Security
Office closings and service cuts.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
Resolution to Michael B. Williams,
AFGE Local 3448, Labor Market Relations VP, Congresswomen Fudge and
Kaptor, U.S. Senators Portman and
Brown, and Governor Kasich.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1637-14.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency resolution supporting Catholic Charities Housing Corporation in its effort to develop affordable housing for senior citizens on the

1826

December 10, 2014
campus of St. Vincent de Paul Parish
located at 13400 Lorain Avenue in
Cleveland.
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
has recognized the need for affordable housing in our neighborhoods;
and
Whereas, the Catholic Charities
Housing Corporation has developed
a comprehensive plan to identify
those areas that would be appropriate for housing developments for
seniors; and
Whereas, the Catholic Charities
Housing Corporation has proposed
the new construction of a 38 unit,
three story elevator building comprised of 10 one bedroom units and
28 two bedroom units which will be
affordable to seniors; and
Whereas, the development will
meet the Enterprise Green Communities Version 3.0 criteria or LEED
the
U.S.
Green
by
Certification
Building Council, and will also
include amenities such as community gathering space, laundry facilities, green space and parking; and
Whereas, Catholic Charities Housing Corporation will apply for funding under the Low Income Housing
Tax Credit Program and the City of
Cleveland Housing Trust Fund; and
Whereas, the proposal involves
utilizing an under-used parking lot,
including demolition of two structures which are no longer in use;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the efforts of Catholic Charities
Housing Corporation to develop a 38
unit senior housing complex on the
campus of St. Vincent de Paul Parish
located at 13400 Lorain Avenue in
Cleveland to provide affordable housing for senior citizens.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1638-14.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution supporting the proposal of Famicos Foundation to the Ohio Housing Finance
Agency for the use of low-income
housing tax credits.
Whereas, each year the Ohio
Housing Finance Agency allocates
housing credits for affordable housing developments throughout Ohio
using
a
competitive
proposal
process; and
Whereas, Famicos Foundation is
proposing to develop up to 40 singlefamily housing units in the Cleveland East submarket as defined by
the Ohio Housing Finance Agency,
in Cleveland, Ohio; and

December 10, 2014
Whereas, the development will
include the construction of new or
rehabilitated lease-purchase housing
and the elimination of blight within the area bounded by Superior
Avenue, East 105th Street, Ashbury
Avenue
and
the
Cleveland/East
Cleveland boarder; and
Whereas, 100% of these homes
will be affordable to families with
incomes at or below 60% of the area
median income and no housing units
will be market rate; and
Whereas, the Famicos Foundation
proposal will benefit the citizens of
the City; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the proposal of Famicos Foundation to the Ohio Housing Finance
Agency for the use of low-income
housing tax credits.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit a copy of this
resolution to the Executive Director
of the Famicos Foundation.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1639-14.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 1735
East 36th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for a New C1
Liquor Permit at Tink Holl Enterprises, Inc., DBA Tink Holl Market,
1735 East 36th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
8942130; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with

The City Record
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Tink Holl Enterprises, Inc., DBA Tink Holl Market, 1735
East 36th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44114, Permanent Number 8942130;
and requests the Superintendent of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1640-14.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of location of a D2,
D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to
2044 Euclid Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of location of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit from Pink Slips,
Inc., 4995-97 Denison Avenue, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent Number 6932324 to
Shiva Shakti One Corp., DBA Bombay Chaat, 2044 Euclid Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent
Number 8900470; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health

1827

31
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
location of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit from Pink Slips, Inc.,
4995-97 Denison Avenue, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number 6932324 to Shiva
Shakti One Corp., DBA Bombay
Chaat, 2044 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number
8900470; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1641-14.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of liquor license of a C2
Liquor
Permit
to
2701
Chester
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of
liquor license of a C2 Liquor Permit
from AJD Gas, LLC, DBA Liberty Gas
USA, 13939 Lorain Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44111,
Permanent
Number
0003708 to AJD Gas, LLC, DBA Liberty Gas USA, 2701 Chester Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
Number 00037080001; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to

32
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a C2 Liquor Permit
from AJD Gas, LLC, DBA Liberty Gas
USA, 13939 Lorain Avenue, Cleveland,
Number
Ohio
44111,
Permanent
0003708 to AJD Gas, LLC, DBA Liberty Gas USA, 2701 Chester Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
Number 00037080001; and requests the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1642-14.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit to 1503 Spring Road,
1st floor.

The City Record
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from
Sarkis, LLC, 1503 Spring Road, 1st
floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent Number 77446580005 to Marwan
Ohio, LLC, 1503 Spring Road, 1st floor,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 5597480; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from
Sarkis, LLC, 1503 Spring Road, 1st
floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent Number 77446580005 to Marwan
Ohio, LLC, 1503 Spring Road, 1st floor,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 5597480; and requests the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.

1828

December 10, 2014
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1643-14.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to 3590
Bosworth Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit
from Steve’s Deli, LLC, DBA Steve’s
Deli, 3590 Bosworth Road, 1st floor
and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44111,
Permanent Number 8575105 to FJN
3596, Inc., 3590 Bosworth Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number
2600068; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit from Steve’s Deli, LLC, DBA
Steve’s Deli, 3590 Bosworth Road, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44111, Permanent Number 8575105 to
FJN 3596, Inc., 3590 Bosworth Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
Number 2600068; and requests the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency

December 10, 2014
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1644-14.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to 3750 Martin
Luther King Jr. Boulevard.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit
from E 116 Savmor Food, Inc., DBA
Martin Luther King Savmor, 3750
Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permanent Number 2402515 to
Savmor 116 Deli, Inc., 3750 Martin
Luther King Jr. Boulevard, 1st floor
and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent Number 77601640005; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit from E 116 Savmor Food, Inc.,
DBA Martin Luther King Savmor,
3750 Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number
2402515 to Savmor 116 Deli, Inc., 3750
Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, 1st

The City Record
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44105,
Permanent
Number
77601640005; and requests the Superintendent of the Division of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1645-14.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
location of a D1, D2 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 3211 Payne Avenue and
repealing Resolution No 1138-14,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of location of a D1, D2
and D6 Liquor Permit to Wonton
Gourmet Cleveland, Inc., DBA Wonton Gourmet, 3211 Payne Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent No.
9750087 by Resolution No. 1138-14
adopted by the Council on September
8, 2014; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of location of a D1, D2 and D6
Liquor Permit to Wonton Gourmet
Cleveland,
Inc.,
DBA
Wonton
Gourmet, 3211 Payne Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent No.
9750087, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 113814, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.

1829

33
Res. No. 1661-14.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 10643 St. Clair Avenue and
repealing Resolution No. 1196-14,
objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to 10643 Sufian,
LLC, DBA EZ Exchange II, 10643 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108
by Resolution No. 1196-14 adopted by
the Council on September 15, 2014;
and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to 10643 Sufian, LLC,
DBA EZ Exchange II, 10643 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent Number 6548248, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1196-14, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1662-14.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
location of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit
at 917 East 105th Street and repealing
Resolution No 1262-14, objecting to
said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of location of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to Nadeen Foods,
Inc., 917 East 105th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent No.
6280919 by Resolution No. 1262-14
adopted by the Council on September 29, 2014; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of location of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to Nadeen Foods, Inc.,
917 East 105th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44108, Permanent No. 6280919, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1262-14, containing

34
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1246-14.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to Left Side Developments LLC to encroach into the public
right-of-way of Washington Avenue
by installing, using, and maintaining
a new handicap-accessible ramp and
stair.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1351-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to Positively Cleveland
to encroach into the public right-ofway within the downtown area by
installing, using, and maintaining 4
way-finding signs and electric duct
banks.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1352-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of replacing existing
underground lift stations with aboveground stations and other related
improvements including sewer work;
and authorizing the Director of Port
Control to enter into one or more public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Transportation,
Finance.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1396-14.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 by enacting new
Section 347.121 and to amend Section
343.11 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 729-09, passed July 1,
2009, relating to hookah lounges and
vapor lounges.
Approved by Directors on Building
and Housing, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In the title, line 4, after “amend”
strike “Section” and insert “Sections
327.99 and”; and in line 6, before
“729.09” insert “899-06, passed August
9, 2006, and Ordinance No.”.
2. In Section 1, at new Section
347.121(c), lines 1 and 2, strike “35 offstreet parking places per establishment” and insert “one off-street parking place for each employee and one
for each seat based on the maximum
seating capacity for the establishment”.
3. In Section 2, line 1, after “That”
insert “Section 327.99, as amended by
Ordinance No. 899-06, passed August 9,
2006, and”; and in line 2, strike “is” and
insert “are”.
4. In Section 2, line 3, before Section
343.11, insert the following new code
section:
“Section 327.99 Penalty
(a) Except as provided in divisions
(c) and (d) below, any person, firm or
corporation who violates any of the
provisions of this Zoning Code or who
fails to comply shall, for each and
every violation or failure, be fined not
less
than
one
hundred
dollars
($100.00), nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned for not
less than ten (10) days, nor more than
ninety (90) days, or both. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed
each day during or on which such violation or failure to comply is permitted to exist under notification thereof.
(b) The imposition of any penalty
under this division shall not be construed as excusing or permitting the
continuance of any violation, and
when the violation constitutes a nuisance, any owner of the premises,
whether the owner at the time the violation was committed or his or her
assignee, shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of this Zoning Code each
day he or she permits such nuisance
to continue unabated after due notice
from the Director of Building and
Housing of the existence of such nuisance.
(c) Any person, firm, or corporation
who violates any provision of Section
337.16 of this Zoning Code or who fails
to comply shall, for each and every
violation or failure, be fined not less
than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00), nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) which fine shall not
be reduced, waived or suspended. In
addition, imprisonment for not less
than ten (10) days nor more than ninety (90) days may be imposed. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which such
violation or failure to comply is permitted to exist after notification
thereof.

1830

December 10, 2014
(d) Whoever violates Sections
337.23, 347.121, 347.02, 347.10, 349.02,
349.04, 349.13, 350.19, 357.13 or, 357.14 or
Section 347.08 as a first offense of that
section shall be fined not more than
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). In
addition to any other method of
enforcement provided for in this chapter, the above listed minor misdemeanors may be enforced by the
issuance of a citation in compliance
with Rule 4.1 of the Ohio Rules of
Criminal Procedure.
(e) Whoever violates Section 347.08
as a second offense of that section
shall be fined not more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or imprisoned for not more than thirty (30)
days, or both. Whoever violates Section 347.08 as a third or subsequent
offense of that section shall be fined
not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or imprisoned for not more
than six (6) months, or both.”.
5. In Section 2, at amended Section
343.11(b)(2)T., line 1, after “location”
insert “with patron seating or that is
classified or seeks classification as
an Assembly use as defined in the
Ohio Building Code”; and in line 5,
after “between “cafes” and the semicolon, insert “that are exempt from
the Smoke Free Workplace Act under
Section 3794.03 of the Revised Code”.
6. In Section 2, at amended Section
343.11(b)(2)U., line 1, after “mobile,”
insert “with patron seating or that is
classified or seeks classification as
an Assembly use as defined in the
Ohio Building Code”.
7. In Section 3, line 1, after “That”
insert “Section 327.99, as amended by
Ordinance No. 899-06, passed August 9,
2006, and”; and in line 2, strike “is” and
insert “are”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1446-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and sections 1, 2, 3 and 5 of
Ordinance No. 456-12, passed June 4,
2012, relating to contracts for general
non-capital repairs and non-capital
improvements, for the Department of
Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Transportation,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In the title, line 2; in Section 1,
line 1, and in Section 2, line 1, strike
“and 5,” and insert “, 5, and 8” in all
three places.
2. In Section 1, after amended Section 5, insert new Section 8 to read
as follows:
“Section 8.
That the cost of the
contracts authorized under this ordinance, including any option years
exercised,
shall
not
exceed
an
aggregate amount of $500,000, and
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF
001, RQS 3001, RL 2012-10.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

December 10, 2014

The City Record

In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1447-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 9 of Ordinance No. 1690-12,
passed December 3, 2012, relating to
giving consent to the Director of
Transportation for constructing the
North Coast Harbor pedestrian bridge
and causing payment to the State.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance,
when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, at amended Section
9, at the end, strike the period and
insert “and RQS 0103, RL 2014-151.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
13. Nays 3. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 13.
Nays 3.
Those voting yea: Council Members Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Mitchell,
Pruitt, Sweeney and Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Members Brady, Conwell, Reed.
Absent: Council Member Polensek.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

Ord. No. 1450-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
County Public Safety and Justice Services for the Cleveland Sexual
Assault Advocate Project for the FY
2014 Violence Against Women Act;
and authorizing the Director to enter
into one or more contracts with the
Cleveland Rape Crisis Center to
implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1448-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a Safety Intervention Grant from the Ohio Bureau
of Workers Compensation for funding
to acquire forcible entry and extrication equipment; and to enter into various written standard purchase and
requirement contracts needed for the
purchase of the equipment.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1449-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for the Brownfields Economic
Development Initiative; authorizing
the Director to apply for a HUD 108
loan to supplement the financing
received from the BEDI authorized
above, for the redevelopment of Cityowned property located in the vicinity
of East 55th, East 63rd, and Euclid
Avenue, formerly known as the Ohio
Knitting Mills building site; and
authorizing a contract with Hemingway
Development,
LLC,
or
its
designee, to implement the project.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.

Ord. No. 1451-14.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development Economic Development Initiative Empowerment Zone Program, to
partially finance a portion of the tenant build-out of The Beauty Shoppe, to
be located at 7012 Euclid Avenue; and
authorizing the Director to enter into
one or more contracts with Victory
Midtown Landlord, LLC, or its
designee, to implement the project.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. In Section 2, line 1, strike “File
No. 1451-14-A,” and insert “File No.
1451-14-B,”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1452-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
County Public Safety and Justice Services for the FY 2014 Violence
Against Women Act (VAWA) grant
for the Cleveland Domestic Violence
Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 2, line 6, strike “RL
2013-142” and insert “RL 2014-135”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

1831

35
Ord. No. 1457-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
consent to the assignment of Contract No. RC 2013-22 from Hi-Lite
Markings, Inc. to Hi-Lite Airfield
Services, LLC; and to exercise the
first option to renew the contract for
labor and materials necessary to
remove rubber and any other contaminants from paved surfaces for the
various divisions of the Department
of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1461-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
BoxCast, LLC for the lease of space
in the passenger terminal building
at Burke Lakefront Airport for operation of a technology-based video
streaming firm, for the Department
of Port Control, for a period of two
years, with three one-year options to
renew, the first and second of which
are exercisable by the Director of
Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1464-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
SP+, fka Standard Parking Corporation for the lease of space in the
terminal building at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for operation of a valet parking operations
office and customer service window,
for the Department of Port Control,
for a period of two years, with two
one-year options to renew, the first
of which is exercisable through
additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1465-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with T
& G Flying Club, Inc. for the lease of
space in the passenger terminal building at Burke Lakefront Airport for
operation of a flight school for training and instruction of student pilots,
for the Department of Port Control,
for a period of two years, with three
one-year options to renew, the first
and second of which are exercisable
by the Director of Port Control.

36
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1467-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the second option to renew
Contract No. PS 2013-056 with Downtown Cleveland Alliance to provide
professional
services
needed
to
implement the Common Area Maintenance Agreement at the North
Coast Harbor.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1511-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
United States Department of Justice
for the FY 14 National Forum on
Youth Violence Prevention Program;
and authorizing the Director to enter
into one or more contracts with the
Partnership for A Safer Cleveland to
implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 1. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 1.
Those voting yea: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow,
K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Mitchell,
Pruitt, Reed, Sweeney andZone.
Those voting nay: Council Member
J. Johnson.
Absent: Council Member Polensek.
Ord. No. 1514-14.
By Council Members Conwell, K.
Johnson and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to
the Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for rehabilitating MLK
Boulevard Bridge project No. 5:029M;
to apply for and accept any gifts or
grants for this purpose from any
public or private entity; authorizing
one or more contracts with consultants, and agreements with public
and private entities; authorizing the
Director of Capital Projects to enter
into any relative agreements; and
authorizing the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies to acquire,
accept, and record for right-of-way
purposes any real property and easements
necessary
to
make
the
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1515-14.
By Council Members Conwell, K.
Johnson and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to
the Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for rehabilitating MLK
Boulevard Bridge project No. 5:055M;
to apply for and accept any gifts or
grants for this purpose from any
public or private entity; authorizing
one or more contracts with consultants, and agreements with public
and private entities; authorizing the
Director of Capital Projects to enter
into any relative agreements; and
authorizing the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies to acquire,
accept, and record for right-of-way
purposes any real property and easements
necessary
to
make
the
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1517-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects
to issue a permit to the Prosperity
Social Club, Inc. to encroach into the
public
right-of-way
above
Starkweather Avenue with three security/surveillance cameras and electrical connection to be attached to a
Cleveland Public Power utility pole
(by separate permission of the
pole’s owner).
Approved by Directors Capital Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1518-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. PS 2013-22 with Leidos,
Inc. to acquire licenses for mandatory environmental compliance and
to perform other services necessary
for the compliance for the Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1519-14.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into one or more forgivable loan agreements with Playhouse Square Foundation, or its
designee, to provide development
assistance to partially finance the
renovation and related costs associated with renovating the lobby of the
Ohio Theater at 1501 Euclid Avenue.

1832

December 10, 2014
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. In Section 6, line 2, after “assistance to” insert “enter into a workforce development agreement with
the City,”.
2. Insert new Section 7 to read as
follows:
“Section 7.
That the contracts
authorized in this legislation will
require the recipient of financial
assistance to comply with Chapters
187, Cleveland Area Business Code,
Chapter 188, Fannie M. Lewis Cleveland Resident Employment Law and
Chapter 189, Cleveland Fair Employment Law.”.
3. Renumber existing Section 7 to
new “Section 8”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1522-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects
to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide architectural
and related services needed for various capital improvement projects,
for the Division of Architecture and
Site Development, Office of Capital
Projects, on an as-needed basis, for
a period up to two years, and executed no later than December 31,
2016.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1523-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
employ one or more professional consultants to provide various engineering, testing, and related services
needed for various capital improvement projects, for the Division of
Engineering and Construction, Office
of Capital Projects, on an as-needed
basis, for a period up to two years,
and executed no later than December
31, 2016.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1525-14.
By Council Members Zone and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
accept a grant from the United
States Department of Justice for the
FY 2013 COPS Hiring Program.

December 10, 2014

The City Record

Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1552-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 17 of Ordinance
No. 1325-12, passed December 3, 2012,
relating to improving the East 79th
Street bridge; and to supplement the
ordinance by adding new Section 16a
to cause payment to the State for the
City’s share of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1558-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more contracts
without competitive bidding with
Exelis for the purchase of not to
exceed seventy-five vehicle squitter
units, including installation and
maintenance, for the Division of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, Department of Port Control,
for a period of one year with three
one-year options to renew, the second of which requires additional
legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1553-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from the Northeast Ohio
Regional Sewer District to partially
finance a portion of the sewer and
stormwater infrastructure improvements in association with the Flats
East Bank Phase II Development;
and authorizing one or more contracts
with Flats East Development, LLC, or
its designee, to implement the project.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1554-14.
By Council Members Zone and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Institute for Intergovernmental
Research for the FY 14 Nationwide
Crime Analysis Capability Building
Project; and authorizing the Director to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities, or individuals to implement the
grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1555-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving
the collective bargaining agreement
with the Teamsters, Local 507; and to
amend Section 9 of Ordinance No. 38514, passed March 31, 2014, relating to
compensation for various classifications.

Ord. No. 1568-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to file any documents necessary, including but not limited to,
a Petition for Zone Certification, to
the Ohio Director of Development
Services Agency to obtain approval
to change the maximum term of tax
abatements from ten to fifteen
years, as now allowed under Ohio
law.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1569-14.
By Council Members Pruitt, K.
Johnson and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell a portion of
City-owned property no longer needed for public use located at 9845
Darrow Road in Twinsburg, Ohio, to
the City of Twinsburg; and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to execute a deed of easement
granting certain temporary ingress,
egress, and construction rights in
property no longer needed for public use and located at 9845 Darrow
Road which are necessary for the
City of Twinsburg’s SR 91 widening/Glenwood
Drive
Roundabout
Project.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Utilities, Municipal
Services and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

1833

37
Ord. No. 1570-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment Financing Agreement with
Gateway
Huron,
LLC,
or
its
designee, to provide funding for the
NuCLEus redevelopment project; to
provide for payments to the Cleveland City School District; and to
declare certain improvements to real
property to be a public purpose.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1571-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contracts with
Gateway
Huron,
LLC,
or
its
designee, to provide economic develpartially
opment
assistance
to
finance the development of Project
NuCLEus Building A and Building
B and other associated costs necessary to redevelop the property.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1572-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 135.16, 135.17, 135.18, 135.180,
603.02, 603.03, 603.031, 603.04, 603.072,
603.09, 603A.04, 603A.05, 603A.06,
603A.07, 603A.10, 603A.13, 603A.16,
604.06 and 604.99, of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by various ordinances, relating to animals, animal control and
animal safety; to supplement the Codified Ordinances by enacting new Section 603.032 relating to seizure and
impoundment of animals; and to
change the name of the Division of
Animal Control Services to the Division of Animal Care and Control.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In the title, line 4, after “603.09,”
insert “603.091,”.
2. In Sections 1 and 2, after line 10
and before the line beginning “Section 603A.04”, insert “Section 603.091,
as amended by Ordinance No. 712-11,
passed June 6, 2011,” in both places.
3. In Section 1, after amended Section 603.09, insert the following new
amended codified ordinance section:
“Section 603.091 Neglect of Animals
(a) No owner or keeper of a dog,
cat, or other domestic animal shall
cause any condition that may lead to
permanent injury, death, or harm to
such animal, including confining an
animal in a motor vehicle under any
conditions that may endanger the
well being of the domestic animal.

38

The City Record
corporation, regarding naming rights
and a corporate sponsorship marketing program for the Medical Mart and
Convention Center and for Malls B
and C, for a period of two years, with
one option to renew for three years,
exercisable by the Director of Economic Development.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. In Section 5, at the end, strike the
period and insert “, subject to legislative authority consistent with all
terms of that certain Definitive
Agreement dated November 18, 2010.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
13. Nays 2. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 13.
Nays 2.
Those voting yea: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland,
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Mitchell, Pruitt,
Sweeney and Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Members Reed and J. Johnson.
Absent: Council Member Polensek.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council, Council Member Cimperman recused himself from the vote
regarding Ordinance No. 1573-14.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

(b) No person shall keep any animal in a place that is unsanitary,
including any place where there is an
accumulation of feces or other waste,
or foul odor, or insect or rodent infestation.
(c) No person who owns or keeps an
animal shall fail to provide the animal all of the following needs:
(1) Clean, potable drinking water
at all times, and suitable food, of sufficient quality and quantity as to
ensure normal growth and the maintenance of normal body weight;
(2) Food and water receptacles that
are kept clean and disinfected, and
located so as to avoid contamination
by feces or other wastes;
(3) Regular exercise sufficient to
maintain the animal’s good health;
(4) Necessary veterinary care;
(5) Shelter from the elements,
including heat, cold, wind, rain, snow
or excessive direct sunlight. If the
animal is housed outside, a structure
for shelter and protection must be provided that is suitable for the species,
age, condition, size, and type of that
animal. The structure must be completely enclosed and insulated, having a single entrance/exit secured
with a flap or door or similar device.
The structure shall be moisture-resistant, wind-resistant, and of suitable
size and type to allow the animal to
stand, turn about freely, lie in a normal position, and regulate proper
body temperature. The structure shall
be made of a durable material with a
solid, moisture-proof floor and a floor
raised at least two inches from the
ground. Suitable drainage shall be
provided so that water cannot be reasonably expected to gather and stand
within ten feet of the structure, and so
the animal has access to a dry area at
all times. Proper bedding of straw or
similar material, that remains dry,
must be utilized inside the structure.
All structures required by this section
shall be subject to all building and
zoning regulations.
(d) No person who shelters an animal from the elements by means of an
animal shelter, a cage, or a pen shall
fail to conform it to the following
requirements:
(1) The shelter, cage or pen shall be
appropriate to the animal’s size,
weight, and other characteristics,
with sufficient space to allow the animal to turn about freely and lie in a
normal position;
(2) The shelter, case or pen shall
provide sufficient shade to allow the
animal to escape the direct rays of the
sun at all times;
(3) The shelter, cage or pen shall be
regularly cleaned and sanitized.
(e) Whoever violates this section is
guilty of neglect of animals, a misdemeanor of the first degree.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

Ord. No. 1591-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of one or
more series of General Obligation
Refunding Bonds to refund currently outstanding general obligation
bonds of the City to obtain debt service savings and authorizing and
approving related matters.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1573-14.
By
Council Members Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a tri-party agreement with the County of Cuyahoga
and The Superlative Group, an Ohio

Ord. No. 1592-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of one or
more series of Subordinate Lien
Income Tax Refunding Bonds to
refund currently outstanding general obligation and subordinate lien

Ord. No. 1577-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request)
An emergency ordinance approving in its entirety the Fact-Finder’s
report, findings and recommendations in the matter of the City of
Cleveland and Municipal Foremen &
Laborers Local 1099, including NonSupervisory and Supervisory; and to
amend Sections 26, 27, and 49 of
Ordinance No. 385-14, passed March
31, 2014, relating to compensation
for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

1834

December 10, 2014
income tax bonds of the City to
obtain
debt
service
savings
or
restructure the City’s outstanding
debt and authorizing and approving
related matters.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1593-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to provide for the transfer and amendment
to the General Fund appropriations
in the amount of Two Million Nine
Hundred
Forty
Thousand
($2,940,000), Eight Hundred Thousand ($800,000) within the Special
Revenue Fund, and Ten Million
Eight
Hundred
Fifty
Thousand
($10,850,000) within the Enterprise
Fund.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1594-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make
additional appropriations of Two
Hundred Thousand ($200,000) of
Enterprise Funds; and to correctly
restate funds appropriated for the
use of the Sinking Fund Commission
under the annual appropriation measure, Ordinance No. 180-14, passed
March 24, 2014.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1595-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make
temporary appropriations for the
current payrolls and other ordinary
expenses of the City of Cleveland
from the period from January 1, 2015
until the effective date of the annual appropriation ordinance for the
fiscal year ending December 31,
2015.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1597-14.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Council President to enter
into an agreement with Cobalt
Group, Inc. for the professional services necessary to provide for implementation of an operations and sustainability plan for Cleveland City
Council.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

December 10, 2014
Ord. No. 1598-14.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into contract with Mita Marketing
LLC for the professional services
necessary to assist Cleveland City
Council with communications and
public relations.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1599-14.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with Solar Systems Networking Inc. for the professional
services
necessary
to
advise and assist in the maintenance and performance of computer
technology projects and to provide
specific computer technology services for Cleveland City Council.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. Section 1, line 7, strike “amendment,” and insert “agreement”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1600-14.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance to enter
into an agreement with Western
Reserve Land Conservancy d/b/a
Thriving Communities Institute to
provide professional services regarding the Vacant and Abandoned Property Action Council (VAPAC), demolition bond, reforestation, demolition
funding, rehabilitation, and code
enforcement.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1601-14.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with Guy Gadomski, CPA to provide professional
financial consulting and auditing
services necessary for Cleveland
City Council.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1602-14.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with The Project
Group for professional assistance in
investigating utility–related matters
pertaining to the Divisions of Cleveland
Public
Power,
Water
and
Water Pollution Control for Cleveland City Council.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED
Res. No. 1245-14.
By Council Members Zone, K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of West
74th Street.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development
Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1526-14.
By Council Members Mitchell, K.
Johnson, and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of East
117th Street (50.00 feet wide) (formerly Luceil Street)
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development
Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Zone, the absence of Council Member Michael D. Polensek is hereby
authorized.
Seconded by Council
Member Cleveland.
The Council Meeting adjourned at
9:03 p.m. to meet at the call of the
chair. The next regular meeting if
Council will be on Monday, January
5, 2015, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

39
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Directors Cox, Parrilla, McGrath,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Rush.
Others: Melissa Burrows, Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
Tiffany
White,
Commissioner,
Division of Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 543-14.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the
conditional bid of AT & T Mobility
National Accounts LLC, except for
such terms and conditions as are
unacceptable to the Director of Law,
for an estimated quantity of wireless cellular services, Part 1, all
items, Part 2, items 1-2, 4-11, 11a-m,
Part 3, all items, Part 4, all items,
and Part 5, all items, for the Division of Information Technology and
Services, Department of Finance, for
a period of one year starting with
the date of execution of a contract
or the day following the expiration
of the currently effective contract
for such services, with two one-year
options to renew, received on October 31, 2014, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 305-14, passed by
Cleveland City Council on March 17,
2014, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$383,793.20, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Finance is requested to
enter into a requirement contract for
the services, labor and materials
necessary for the specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such services, labor and
materials, whether more or less than
the estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Directors Cox, Parrilla, McGrath,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Rush.
Resolution No. 544-14.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that all bids
received on October 31, 2014, for an
estimated quantity of wireless cellular services, Part 2, item 3, for the
Division of Information Technology
and
Services,
Department
of
Finance, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 305-14, passed March
17, 2014, are rejected.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Directors Cox, Parrilla, McGrath,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Rush.

December 3, 2014
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, December 3,
2014 at 10:36 a.m. with Director
Langhenry presiding.

1835

Resolution No. 545-14.
By Director Dumas.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on November 7,
2014 for an estimated quantity of

The City Record

40
the purchase of labor and materials
necessary to repair, replace or maintain various types of valves, actuators and appurtenances, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 850-14, passed August
20, 2014, are rejected.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Directors Cox, Parrilla, McGrath,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Rush.

EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.

Resolution No. 546-14.
By Director McGrath.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1128-14, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on October 13,
2014, Taser International, Inc. is
selected from a list of firms determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Public Safety as the firm to be employed by
contract to supplement the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services and equipment necessary to
implement a Body Worn Camera
System including, but not limited to,
licenses, storage, and extended warranty maintenance for a period of
one year with two one-year options
to renew, for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into a contract with
Taser International, Inc. based upon
its proposal dated October 27, 2014,
which contract shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, shall provide
for rendering the above-mentioned
professional services and equipment
as described in the proposal for an
amount not to exceed $2,400,000.00,
and shall contain such additional
provisions as the Director of Law
deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Directors Cox, Parrilla, McGrath,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Rush.

ROBERT BENNETT,
President

JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, DECEMBER 29, 2014
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 14-239: 5027 Lorain
Avenue (Ward 3)
Enrique Maldonado, owner, proposes to establish use as a Motor
Vehicle Sales Facility with office
trailer on a 40' x 132' lot in a C2
Local Retail Business District and a
Pedestrian Retail Overlay District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. 343.01(b) which states that
Motor Vehicle Sales Facility is not
permitted in a Local Retail Business
District but is first permitted in
General Retail Business District per
Section 343.11(b)(2)(I)(4).
2. Section 347.11(a) which states
that open sales lots are required to
be a minimum width of 60 feet and
40 feet are proposed.
3. Section 352.08 through 325.12
which state that a four foot wide
strip
is
landscaped
frontage
required where the property abuts
the street, and a landscape plan is
required; no landscape plan is submitted.
4. Section 349.08 which states that
an opaque wall, fence or four foot
wide landscape strip is required to
screen parking spaces from adjoining lot containing residential units.
5.
Section
358.05(a)(2)
which
states that a maximum six foot high
fence is permitted in the side yard
and an eight foot high fence/gate is
proposed.
6.
Section
343.23(e)(1)
which
states that an open sales lot is prohibited in a Pedestrian Retail Overlay District. (Filed November 24,
2014)
Calendar No. 14-240: 5901 Franklin
Boulevard (Ward 15)
Jon B. Post, owner, proposes to
establish use of first floor of front
building on lot as an antique shop
in a B1Two-Family Residential District. The owner appeals for relief
from the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances:
1.
Section
337.03(a)(b)
which
states that an antique shop is not
permitted in a Two-Family Residential District.
2. Section 359.02 (a) which states
that a nonconforming use of a

1836

December 10, 2014
building or premises which has
been discontinued shall not thereafter be returned to such nonconforming use.
3. Section 359.02(b) A nonconforming use shall be considered discontinued:
(1) When the intent of the owner
to discontinue the use is express; or
(2) When the use is voluntarily
discontinued for six (6) months or
more. The intent to voluntarily discontinue a use may be implied from
acts or the failure to act, including,
but not limited to, the removal of
and failure to replace the characteristic equipment and furnishings;
or
(3) The cessation of business
operations for two (2) years or more
unless the cessation of business
operations was caused by factors
out of the control of the business
such as the disability or illness of
the
proprietor
or
governmental
action unrelated to the behavior of
the business. If the business operations have ceased for more than two
(2) years, the presence of characteristic equipment and furnishings
is not relevant;
(4) When it has been replaced by
a conforming use; or
(5) When it has been changed to
another use under permit from the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
4. Section 358.04 which states that
fences in the front yard cannot
exceed 4 feet in height and 5' - 6"
are proposed (Filed November 26,
2014)
Calendar No. 14-242: 5100 Biddulph
Avenue (Ward 13)
Cleveland
Board
of
Education
(Rhodes High School) owner, proposes to erect a 4' x 8' x 8' high
single faced illuminated identification message center ground sign in
a B1 Two-Family Residential District. The owner appeals for relief
from Section 350.13(g) of the Cleveland
Codified
Ordinances
which
states that a ground mounted message center sign for a community
facility requires Board of Zoning
Appeals approval. (Filed November
26, 2014)
Calendar No. 14-246: 2173 West 6th
Street (Ward 3)
Laura Firman, owner, proposes to
erect a 21' - 9" x 47' and 3 story
frame single family residence with
detached garage in a B1 Two-Family Residential District. The owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application of the following sections
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04(b) which states
that the maximum gross floor area
allowed in 1,250 square feet and
1,350 square feet are proposed.
2.
Section
357.09(2)(A)
which
states that no building shall be
erected less than 10 feet from a
main building on an adjoining lot
and the owner is proposing 3' - 3"
and 4'.
3.
Section
357.09(2)(C)
which
states that the required interior side
yards must equal 8 feet and the
owner is proposing 2 feet and 1 foot
for the dwelling and 0 feet for the
covered walkway.
4. Section 357.13 which states that
a light-well is not a permitted front
yard encroachment.
5. Section 357.13(b)which states
that light-wells and an open balcony

The City Record

December 10, 2014
must be less than 10 feet from the
property line and the owner is
proposing 4 feet and 3 feet 8 inches. (Filed December 5, 2014)
POSTPONED FROM
DECEMBER 8, 2014
Calendar No. 14-217: 4770 Broadview
Road (Ward 13)
Julie Adams House, owner, proposes to change use to a supervised
residential drug/liquor recovery program facility in a C1 Local Retail
Business
District.
The
owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application of the following Sections
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1.
Section
343.019(b)(1)
which
states that a supervised residential
drug/liquor recovery program is
first permitted in a General Retail
Business District.
2. Sections 352.08 through 352.12
which require an eight foot wide
landscape transition strip providing
at least 75% year round opacity
where abutting a residential District.
3. Section 352.07 which states that
an
extension
of
non-conforming
landscaping must receive Board of
Zoning Appeals approval. (Filed
November 4, 2014)
First postponement made at the
request of the Councilman in order
to allow for more time to review the
project.
Violation Notice
Calendar No. 14-225: 4770 Broadview
Road (Ward 13)
Julie Adams House Inc., owner,
appeals under the authority of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d)
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances and disputes the Notice of
Violation V14005225 issued on February 27, 2014 by the Cleveland
Department of Building and Housing for failure to comply with Section 327.02 regarding establishing
use as a rehabilitation center for
women without a Certificate of
Occupancy.
(Filed
November
12,
2014)
First postponement made at the
request of the Councilman in order
to allow for more time to review the
project.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2014
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, December 8, 2014, the following appeals
were scheduled for hearing before
the Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 14-216: 1444 West 48th
Street
Scott Francis, owner, appealed to
install air conditioner unit in the
interior side yard of a parcel located in a B1 Two-Family Residential
District.

41

Calendar No. 14-232: 4218 West 143rd
Street
Mr. Hoover, owner, appealed to
change the existing non-conforming
single family residence attached flat
roof garage to a gable roof on a parcel located in an A1 One-Family Residential District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

were

appeals

were

None.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:

Calendar No. 14-184: 2341 East 79th
Street
Fairfax
Development
Organization, owner, and Cleveland Botanical
Garden lessee, appeals to erect 50
linear feet of 6 foot high chain link
fence in the front yard of a parcel
located in a C1 Multi-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-185: 2345 East 79th
Street
Fairfax
Development
Organization, owner, and Cleveland Botanical
Garden lessee, appeals to erect 50
linear feet of 6 foot high chain link
fence in the front yard of a parcel
located in a C1 Multi-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-186: 2347 East 79th
Street
Fairfax
Development
Organization, owner, and Cleveland Botanical
Garden lessee, appeals to erect 50
linear feet of 6 foot high chain link
fence in the front yard of a parcel
located in a C1 Multi-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-187: 2535 East 79th
Street
Fairfax
Development
Organization, owner, and Cleveland Botanical
Garden lessee, appeals to erect 50
linear feet of 6 foot high chain link
fence in the front yard of a parcel
located in a C1 Multi-Family Residential District.
The following
MISSED:

appeal

was

DIS-

Calendar No. 14-218: Wolley Taxi
Company
Wolley Taxi Company appealed
the decision of Assessments and
Licenses to revoke the licenses for
two vehicles in their fleet.
The following appeals were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 14-217: Julie Adams
House
4770 Broadview Road. Postponed
to December 29, 2014.
Calendar No. 14-225: Julie Adams
House/Appeal from VN
4770 Broadview Road. Postponed
to December 29, 2014.
The following appeal was rescheduled:
Calendar
No.
14-211:
BuckeyeFDBTS, LLC
12915 Buckeye Road. Postponement changed from January 12, 2015
to December 22, 2014.

1837

The following appeals were heard
by the Board on December 1, 2014
and the decisions were adopted and
approved on December 8, 2014:
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 14-209: 2925 Jay Avenue
Patrick Sullivan, owner, proposes
to construct a 3,000 square foot, twostory, single family house on a 4,300
square foot lot located in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-210: 1810 West 25th
Street (Unit 3)
Tom Gillespie, owner, proposes to
establish use as a café in C3 Local
Retail
Business
District
and
a
Pedestrian Retail Overlay District
(PRO).
Calendar No. 14-212: 3000 Bridge
Avenue
WSCH, LLC, owner, proposes to
establish use for four business
office tenants in basement floor,
total 2,692 gross floor area, in a nonconforming building authorized for
21 apartments and a coffee shop in
a B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The following appeal was heard
by the Board on November 24, 2014
and the decisions were adopted and
approved on December 8, 2014:
Calendar No. 14-204: 15402 Macauley
Road
Michael Dubson, owner, appeals
the decision rendered by the City of
Cleveland
Parking
Violations
Bureau Waste Collection and Photo
Safety Division and the violation
information
described
on
Civil
Infraction
Ticket
Number
WC00199786, issued August 12, 2014
for the property located at 15402
Macauley Road and failure to comply with Section 551.111(B) in the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
The following appeals were heard
by the Board on October 13, 2014 and
the decisions were adopted and
approved on December 8, 2014:
Calendar No. 14-148: 602 Marquardt
Ave.
Cleveland Bricks, owner, proposes
to erect a two story, 1885 square foot
townhouse on a 2,252 square foot
parcel located in a B1 Two-Family
Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-149: 604 Marquardt
Ave.
Cleveland Bricks, owner, proposes
to erect a two story, 1,730 square
foot townhouse on a 2,252 square
foot parcel located in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-150: 606 Marquardt
Ave.
Cleveland Bricks, owner, proposes
to erect a two story, 1893 square foot
townhouse on a 2,252 square foot
parcel located in a B1 Two-Family
Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-151: 608 Marquardt
Ave.
Cleveland Bricks, owner, proposes
to erect a two story, 1,362 square
foot townhouse on a 2,252 square
foot parcel located in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District.
Secretary

The City Record

42
REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Re: Report of the Meeting of
December 3, 2014
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:
*    *    *
Docket A-173-14.
RE:
Appeal
of
NDNMD,
Inc.,
Owner of the Property, located on
the premises known as 7260 Neville
Avenue
(aka
7275
Wentworth
Avenue) from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — FIRE CODE, dated
August 5, 2014, the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, that after
reviewing all the facts of the case,
a motion is in order at this time to
DENY any request for additional
time and to REMAND the property
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Maschke and
seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Saab,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Bradley.
*    *    *
Docket A-186-14.
RE: Appeal of Sarah Gardner,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
11619
Hamlen
Avenue
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated September 4, 2014 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until June 15, 2015 in
which to complete abatement of the
exterior maintenance violations; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Maschke and
seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Saab,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Bradley.
*    *    *
Docket A-187-14.
RE: Appeal of Tamekia Madden,
Owner of the R-2 Residential —
Non-transient; Apartments (Shared
Egress) Property, located on the
premises
known
as
12702
Gay
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated September 17, 2014 of the
Director
of
the
Department
of

Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until February 1, 2015 in
which to submit plans to the Building
Department
and
obtain
all
required permits for renovation of
the property, and until December 1,
2015 for completion of the project,
noting that failure to meet either
date will result in the property
being
REMANDED
immediately:
The pro-perty is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so
in
order.
Motioned
by
Mr.
Maschke and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Saab,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Bradley.
*    *    *
Docket A-189-14.
RE: Appeal of Anna Chambers,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
1785 East 47th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated August 20, 2014
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until January 15, 2015 in
which to remove all combustibles
from the property and two (2)
weeks after that date to submit a
plan to the Building Department to
obtain all required permits for renovation of the property, and to grant
the Appellant until August 1, 2015 to
complete abatement of all violations
on the property. The property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Saab,
Absent:
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Messrs. Gallagher, Bradley.
*    *    *
Docket A-190-14.
RE: Appeal of Anderson Russell,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
11421 Carolina Road from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE & GARAGE, dated
September 19, 2014 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until January 15, 2015 in
which to obtain all required permits
to demolish the garage, cleaning
and removing all debris for abatement of the garage violation; and to
grant the Appellant until June 15,
2015 to complete abatement of all
violations on the property; the property is REMANDED at this time to

1838

December 10, 2014
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Saab,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Bradley.
*    *    *
Docket A-191-14.
RE: Appeal of Gabriel Pardamean
C/O GMS Services, Owner of the
Property, located on the premises
known as 5323 Mound Avenue (aka
3586 East 54th Street, Apt. 3) from
SUSPENDED
OR
ABANDONED
PERMIT #B13017195, dated October
9, 2014 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
SUSPENDED
OR
ABANDONED
PERMIT #B13017195 was properly
issued, and to uphold the revocation
of that permit, and to DENY the
appeal request for additional time;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Saab
and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Saab,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Bradley.
*    *    *
Docket A-195-14.
RE: Appeal of WMW Management
C/O William Sr. & Jr. M. Tetzlaf,
Owners of the B Business — Offices,
Laboratories, Adult School Three
Story Masonry Walls Wood Floors
Semi-Industry Property, located on
the premises known as 8200 Harvard
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated August 20, 2014 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until January 15, 2015 in
which to clear the building completely
of
combustibles
and
to
reestablish the boarding; the property is REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Maschke and
seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Saab,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Bradley.
*    *    *
Docket A-196-14.
RE: Appeal of Eva Caraballo,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
2490 Scranton Road from a NOTICE
OF
VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated September
17, 2014, of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of

December 10, 2014
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until July 1, 2015 in which
to complete abatement of the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Saab.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Saab,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Bradley.
*    *    *

The City Record
dated October 17, 2014 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to accept the stair
entrance design presented, omitting
the lower two (2) landings and
allowing breaks in the railing at the
terrace entrances, and that this is a
safe solution to the code requirements. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Saab.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Saab,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Bradley.

Docket A-215-14.
RE: Appeal of Matthew Martinez,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 3098 West 112th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
INTERIOR/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated October 24,
2014 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until June 1, 2015 in
which to complete abatement of all
violations on the property, with the
priority on the porch railing; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Maschke and
seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Saab,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Bradley.

Docket A-226-14.
RE:
Appeal
of
NDNMD,
Inc.,
Owner of the Property, located on
the premises known as 7260 Neville
Avenue
(aka
7275
Wentworth
Avenue)
from
a
CEASE
USE
ORDER — FIRE CODE, dated October 16, 2014, the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, that after
reviewing all the facts of the case,
a motion is in order at this time to
DENY any request for additional
time and to REMAND the property
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Maschke and
seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Saab,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Bradley.

*    *    *

EXTENSION OF TIME:

Docket A-219-14.
RE: Appeal of Lei Wei, Owner of
the Two Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence Two & One/half Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 9520 Orleans
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
INTERIOR/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated October 15,
2014 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until June 1, 2015 in
which to complete abatement of all
violations on the property; the property is REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Maschke and
seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Saab,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Bradley.

*    *    *

*    *    *

Docket A-158-14.
Tian Jin LLC — 11012 Notre Dame
Avenue:
A motion is in order at this time
to grant the Appellant until December 24, 2014 to obtain all required
permits, and until April 15, 2015 to
complete abatement of all violations
on the property; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Saab,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Bradley.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:

*    *    *

Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr.
Maschke for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):

Docket A-222-14.
RE: Appeal of Gateway Economic
Development Corporation, Owner of
the Property, located on the premises known as 2401 Ontario Street
from an ADJUDICATION ORDER,

A-180-14 — EV Bishoff
A-181-14 — Wanda Maultsby
A-182-14 — Donald & Cynthia
Grimes
A-183-14 — Hilbert & Patricia
Bridges

1839

43
A-184-14 — Khadija Kelley
A-185-14 — Dana S. Paterson
A-188-14 — Left Side Developments, LLC
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Saab,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Bradley.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
November 19, 2014
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Saab,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Bradley.
*    *    *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE

The City Record

44
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 19, 2014
File No. 139-14 — Lorain Avenue
Reconstruction West 150th Street
to West 117th Street CUY-10-10.17
PID 84289, for the Division of
Engineering
and
Construction,
Department of The Mayor’s Office
of Capital Projects, as authorized
by Ordinance No. 648-13, passed
by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, May 20, 2013.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF SEVENTY FIVE
DOLLARS ($75.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY,
DECEMBER
11,
2014 AT 10:00 A.M. THE CLEVELAND CITY HALL, ROOM 514,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.

of Architecture and Site Development,
Department
of
Public
Works and Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 727-13, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, May 20, 2013.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF TWENTY FIVE
DOLLARS ($25.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, DECEMBER 19, 2014 AT
10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, ROOM 517A, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
December 10, 2014 and December 17, 2014
FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 2015
File No. 144-14 — Landscape Maintenance at Various Public Utilities (Re-bid), for the various
Divisions
of
Public
Utilities,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 86313, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, August 14,
2013.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY,
DECEMBER
18,
2014 AT 2:30 P.M. CARL B.
PUBLIC
UTILITIES
STOKES
BUILDING, 2ND FLOOR ATRIUM
CONFERENCE
ROOM,
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OH 44114.

November 26, 2014, December 3, 2014 and
December 10, 2014
December 10, 2014 and December 17, 2014
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7, 2015
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 2015
File No. 143-14 — J.I.T. Office Supplies, Furniture and Equipment
for the Various Divisions, for the
various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 119114, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, September 29,
2014.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 16, 2014
AT 3:30 P.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, ROOM 514, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OH
44114.
December 3, 2014 and December 10, 2014
FRIDAY, JANUARY 2, 2015
File No. 145-14 — Jefferson Avenue
Green
Infrastructure
Improvements (Re-bid), for the Division

File No. 146-14 — Exterior Facade
and Ticketing Lobby Rehabilitation, for the Division of Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport,
Department of Port Control, as
authorized
by
Ordinance
Nos.
1587-09 and 1588-09, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
November 30, 2009 and November
30, 2009, respectively.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
ONLY
IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK OR A MONEY ORDER
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, DECEMBER 22, 2014 AT

1840

December 10, 2014
2:00 P.M. THE FSS BUILDING,
6C-24C
CONFERENCE
ROOM,
5301
WEST
HANGAR
ROAD,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
December 10, 2014 and December 17, 2014

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 1603-14.
By Council Members Kelley, Pruitt,
Reed, Cimperman, K. Johnson, Cleveland, Mitchell, Dow, Polensek, Conwell, J. Johnson, Brady, Brancatelli,
Cummins, Zone, Sweeney and Keane.
An emergency resolution opposing
Am. Sub. H.B. 5 which, if passed as
currently proposed, will have serious
financial impact on cities and villages of Ohio.
Whereas, in early 2013, H.B. 5 was
introduced in the Ohio House in an
attempt to create uniformity in the
collection
and
administration
of
municipal income taxes in Ohio; and
Whereas,
however,
the
bill
extends the concept of uniformity
into areas that will impact the tax
revenue collected by communities
like Cleveland; and
Whereas, the pending legislation
could result in a substantial reduction in resources for the hundreds of
Ohio communities that levy an
income tax; and could lead to further budget consequences such as
service cuts and tax increases; and
Whereas, when combined with the
significant loss of revenue that
municipalities already face as a
result of 4 years of state policy
changes and state budget cuts, the
potential impact to Ohio communities is staggering; and
Whereas, if Am. Sub. H.B. 5 passes, the potential impact on Ohio communities is estimated to exceed $82
million per year; when taken with
the annual impacts of other cuts to
local governments contained in the
past 2 state budgets, the impact to
municipalities will approach half a
billion dollars per year; for some
Ohio communities, this reduction in
resources exceeds 20% of their
annual budgets; and
Whereas, for the City of Cleveland, should Am. Sub. H.B. 5 pass,
the resulting revenue loss would be
in excess of $3 million, which would
inevitably harm our ability to provide needed services at the level citizens and business rely on; this
would be detrimental to the safety
and economic stability of the city;
and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has already lost $30 million due to
state cuts in the Local Government
Fund, the accelerated phase-out of
Tangible Personal Property reimbursement and cuts to the Commercial Activity Tax, and has lost $5.5
million because of the elimination of
the estate tax; and

December 10, 2014
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
opposes Am. Sub. H.B. 5 which, if
passed as currently proposed, will
have serious financial impact on
cities and villages of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit copies
of this resolution to all members of
the Ohio legislature.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted December 1, 2014.
Effective December 1, 2014.

Res. No. 1604-14.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pruitt, Reed, K. Johnson, Cleveland,
Mitchell, Dow, Polensek, Conwell, J.
Johnson, Brady, Brancatelli, Kelley,
Cummins, Zone, Sweeney and Keane.
An emergency resolution urging
the Ohio State Board of Education to
wait 90 days to allow more community input before voting on its intent to
eliminate the “5 of 8” rule.
Whereas, the Ohio State Board of
Education plans to vote in December on whether to eliminate the socalled “5 of 8” rule that requires
school districts to fill at least five
of eight jobs for every 1,000 students
with elementary art, music or physical education teachers, school counselors, library media specialists,
school nurses, social workers, and
visiting teachers;  and
Whereas, if this proposal passes,
each district would decide how
many of these critical positions to
fill, which leaves them open to cuts;
and
Whereas, state teachers unions
and associations of school librarians, nurses and counselors are concerned that local boards and administrators will see this as an opportunity to control budgets by eliminating art, music and physical education teachers, school counselors,
library media specialists, school
nurses and social workers; and
Whereas, these professionals, parents and community members are
concerned about the effect that eliminating these required positions will
have on the quality of education for
students; and
Whereas, more time is needed for
community discussion of what personnel schools really need to help
students thrive, and what expectations should be set for all public
schools;  and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the Ohio State Board of Education to
wait 90 days to allow more community

The City Record
input before voting on its intent to
eliminate the “5 of 8” rule.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

Ord. No. 974-13.
By Council Members Miller and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 551.041, 551.05, 551.111 and
551.991 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 773-A-80, passed
December 14, 1981 and Ordinance No.
1291-11, passed December 9, 2011
relating to setting out an excessively large quantity of waste for
collection prohibited, applicability,
penalty, and civil infractions.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 551.041, as amended by Ordinance No. 697-10, passed August 18,
2010;
Section 551.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 773-A-80, passed December
14, 1981, and
Sections 551.111 and 551.991 as
amended by Ordinance No. 1291-11,
passed December 9, 2011 are amended
to read as follows:
Section 551.041 Infractions Related
to Automated Waste Collection and
Curbside Recycling
Findings. It is essential to the success of the automated waste collection and curbside recycling program
described in division (b) that waste
set out for collection is placed in the
correct container for the type of waste
involved.
If the correct container is not used,
it increases both the labor and disposal costs for the waste. If recyclable
materials become contaminated by
regular household waste, then they
must be disposed of as regular solid
waste, which is more costly than
treating them as recyclables. If the
regular household waste container is
used for the disposal of recyclable
materials, then the economic and
environmental benefits of recycling
are not realized.
To achieve the goals of the program
it is necessary that all citizens use the
container intended for disposal of the
type of waste involved and avoid all
mixing of recyclable materials and
regular household waste.
(a) No person shall do any of the
following at any parcel included in
the automated waste collection and
curbside recycling program described
in division (b):
(1) Set out for collection the container designated for recyclable
materials if its contents exceed two
percent (2%) regular household
waste by volume.

1841

45
(2) Set out for collection the container designated for regular household waste if its contents exceed ten
percent (10%) recyclable materials
by volume.
(3) Set out for collection any regular household waste in any container
or bag other than the container designated for regular household waste for
use in the automated waste collection
program.
It is not a violation of this division
to set out for collection at any parcel
included in the program described in
division (b) special waste set out in
accordance with Section 551.05.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as abrogating or limiting any
other section of these Codified Ordinances including without limitation
the prohibition on setting out an
excessively large quantity of waste
for collection as proscribed by Section
551.111.
(b) The offenses established in
division (a) pertain to any parcel that
is included in the automated waste
collection and curbside recycling program in which the waste is collected
by means of a truck equipped with
mechanical arms. The City will distribute two (2) containers to each
household in the program, one (1)
designated for regular household
waste, and the other designated for
recyclable materials.
(c) As use in this section:
(1) “Recyclable materials” means
glass, metal cans, plastic bottles,
mixed paper, and cardboard that are
prepared for collection in accordance
with this chapter and the rules and
regulations issued under it.
(2) “Regular household waste”
means waste generated in ordinary
residential uses excluding recyclable
materials, hazardous waste and any
waste excluded from being placed out
for curbside collection by law, rule or
regulation.
Section 551.05 Special Waste
(a) No furniture, tires, yard waste,
bundle of brush, tree trunk or other
such special waste shall be routinely
collected by the regular waste collectors. Any solid waste, other than furniture, appliances or other such bulk
items, that is so large that it cannot
be contained in approved containers,
shall be securely tied in compact bundles not to exceed one hundred (100)
pounds in weight and shall be placed
in a location convenient for collection.
generally
(b)
Special
Waste
includes, but is not limited to, large
bulk items such as refrigerators, furniture, mattresses, couches, shelving,
fencing, house doors, storm windows,
televisions, and bicycles.
Section 551.111 Setting out an
Excessively Large Quantity of Waste
for Collection Prohibited; Applicability; Penalty
(a) No person shall set out for collection on a parcel’s tree lawn or other
designated place for collection, in a
manual collection zone, a quantity of
solid waste, exceeding five approved
waste containers, twenty bags of
yard waste, twenty bundles of brush
or tree trunks, four tires, or three special waste items as described in division (b) of Section 551.05.
(b) No person shall set out for collection on a parcel’s tree lawn or other
designated place for collection, in an
automated collection zone, a quantity
of solid waste exceeding twenty bags

46
of yard waste, twenty bundles of
brush or tree trunks, four tires, or
three
special
waste
items
as
described in division (b) of Section
551.05.
(c) Applicability. The offenses
established in this section are applicable without regard to whether the
offender:
(1) Sets the waste out due to an
eviction, a house or garage cleanout,
or for any other reason;
(2) Uses or intends to use a public
or private vendor or entity for its disposal;
(3) Sets out the waste for the purpose of staging it for eventual disposal.
(d) Penalty. Any person who violates this section is liable for the civil
infraction established under Section
551.991 and is guilty of a special misdemeanor for which the maximum
penalty shall be three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00).
Section 551.991 Civil Infractions
(a) Civil Enforcement System
Established. The City of Cleveland
adopts a civil enforcement system for
the infractions established by this
section. This civil enforcement system imposes monetary liability on the
responsible parties as defined in division (m).
In addition to any other means of
enforcement provided for in these
Codified Ordinances, each of the following sections may be enforced
through the issuance of a ticket to the
responsible parties as defined in division (m):
(1) Section 551.04, division (d),
relating to the early set out of waste.
(2) Section 551.04, division (e),
relating to failing to remove a waste
container after collection.
(3) Section 551.111, division (a) and
division (b), relating to excessively
large quantity of waste for collection.
(4) Section 551.041, division (a),
relating to automated waste collection and recycling infractions.
Any person who violates any of the
foregoing prohibitions has committed
an infraction for which liability is
imposed by division (b) upon the
responsible parties as defined in division (m).
(b) Liability Imposed. Each owner
of a parcel at which an infraction has
occurred is liable to the City of Cleveland in the amounts established in
divisions (f) and (g).
(c) Noncriminal Offense; No Conviction. The infractions established by
this section are noncriminal. The
imposition of liability upon the
responsible parties under this section
shall not be deemed a conviction for
any purpose.
(d) Other Costs and Penalties Not
Abrogated. Nothing in this section
shall be construed as altering or limiting the effects of any other section
of these Codified Ordinances, the
criminal penalties imposed by any
such other section, or the ability of a
law enforcement officer to enforce
those sections.
(e) Tickets – Service; Contents. If a
violation of division (a) is observed
by an employee of the Division of
Waste Collection and Disposal or
any other City employee whose
duties include the enforcement of
this section, then the Director of Public Works shall cause the responsible
parties to be issued a ticket. The
ticket shall be served by sending it
via regular U.S. mail, postage prepaid, to the parcel owner(s) at the

The City Record
tax mailing address shown in the
records of the County Recorder.
The date of mailing of the ticket
shall be deemed to be the date of
issuance of the ticket. If the mailing
is unreturned, then it shall establish
that the respondents were given actual or constructive notice of the imposition of liability under this section.
The ticket shall identify the parcel
owner(s) as respondents. The ticket
shall state that the respondents are
responsible parties for the commission of a civil infraction under this
section.
The ticket shall inform the respondents of the procedure to file an
appeal and the time frame for filing
it. The ticket shall state that failure
to appeal the ticket or pay the costs
imposed not later than twenty (20)
days from the date of issuance of the
ticket shall constitute a waiver of the
right to contest the ticket and shall be
considered an admission. The ticket
shall further state that if the ticket is
not appealed or paid in that time
frame, then a default finding of civil
liability shall be imposed upon
respondents for the costs established
in divisions (f) and (g).
The ticket may be in any format
that includes all of the elements
required by this section.
(f) Penalties Established. The
costs imposed by this section upon the
responsible parties for the commission of an infraction contrary to division (a) shall be assessed in accordance with the following schedule:
Section

Civil Penalty

551.111, division (a) $100.00. However, if the quantity of solid waste
exceeds ten approved waste containers, forty bags of yard waste, forty
bundles or brush or tree trunks, eight
tires, or six special waste items, the
civil penalty shall be $350.00.
551.111, division (b) $100.00. However, if the quantity of solid waste
exceeds ten approved waste containers, forty bags of yard waste, forty
bundles of brush or tree trunks, or six
special waste items, the civil penalty
shall be $350.00
551.04, division (d)

$100.00

551.04, division (e)

$100.00

551.041, division (a)

$100.00

The costs established by this section are imposed upon the responsible
parties both as civil penalties and to
reimburse the City for a portion of the
costs incurred by it in the enforcement of infractions, and for some
infractions, the increased costs of
solid waste disposal.
(g) Late Penalties. Late penalties
shall be assessed in accordance with
the following schedule:
(1) If the costs established in division (f) remain unpaid twenty (20)
days after the ticket is issued or twenty (20) days after the conclusion of all
appeals, an additional twenty dollars
($20.00) shall be assessed; and
(2) If the costs established in division (f) remain unpaid forty (40)
days after the ticket is issued or forty
(40) days after the conclusion of all
appeals, an additional forty dollars
($40.00) shall be added to the twenty
dollars ($20.00) assessed under division (g)(1) for a total additional
penalty of sixty dollars ($60.00) in
such a case.

1842

December 10, 2014
(h) Appeals – Timing. Any respondent or other person who is potentially liable for the costs imposed by this
section may appeal the imposition of
liability to the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee, which
may include the Clerk of the Cleveland Municipal Court in his or her
capacity
as
Parking
Violations
Bureau Administrator or otherwise,
in the manner described in the ticket.
As used in divisions (h) (i) and (j) of
this section, “Director” means the
Director of Public Works or his or her
designee.
The appeal shall be taken not later
than twenty (20) days from the date
of issuance of the ticket. Failure to
appeal the ticket or pay the costs
imposed within this time period shall
constitute a waiver of the right to contest the ticket and shall be considered
an admission.
(i) Appeal – Process. The Director
shall establish an administrative
appeal process for persons to appeal
tickets issued under this section. The
administrative appeal process shall
allow the appellant the right to present appellant’s case in person and
may allow for evidence to be presented ex-parte. The strict rules of evidence applicable to courts of law
shall not apply in any administrative
hearing or ex-parte review. The ticket
charging the offense shall constitute
prima facie evidence that the offense
identified in the ticket occurred and
that the parcel owner(s) to whom the
ticket was mailed are the responsible
parties as defined in division (m) and
are liable to the City of Cleveland for
the costs imposed by this section.
If the Director finds by a preponderance of evidence that an appellant
is liable under this section for the
costs assessed, then the Director shall
dismiss the appeal and order the
appellant to pay the costs identified
in the ticket.
If the Director finds by a preponderance of evidence that an appellant
is liable under this section for the
costs assessed but that there are reasons for the commission of the infraction that mitigate the offense, then
the Director shall dismiss the appeal
and order the appellant to pay the
costs identified in the ticket, but may
in the interest of equity reduce the
costs assessed.
If the Director finds by a preponderance of evidence that the appellant is not liable under this section for
the costs assessed, then the Director
shall dismiss the ticket and grant the
appeal.
(j) Appeal of the Director’s Decision. Any person subject to an
adverse decision of the Director may
appeal that decision to the Board of
Zoning Appeals. The notice of appeal
shall be in writing and shall be filed
with the Board of Zoning Appeals
within ten (10) days of the decision of
the
Director.
The
Board
shall
approve, modify or annul the finding
from which the appeal is taken.
(k) Collection. The costs imposed
by this section may be enforced and
collected by means of a civil action or
any other means provided for in these
Codified Ordinances or the Ohio
Revised Code.
(l) Rules and Regulations. The
Director of Public Works may issue
rules and regulations to carry out the
provisions of these sections, which
shall be effective thirty (30) days
after their publication in the City
Record.
(m) Definitions. As used in this section:

The City Record

December 10, 2014
(1) “Director” means the Director of
Public Works and in the case of
appeals, the Director of Public Works
or his or her designee.
(2) “Owner” or “parcel owner” mean
the person(s) shown in the records of
the County Recorder as having legal
title to the parcel on which someone
has failed to adhere to division (a).
(3) “Person” includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate,
trust, partnership, and association.
(RC 1.59(C))
(4)
“Responsible
party”
and
“responsible parties” has the same
meaning as “owner” or “parcel
owner”.
Section 2. That the following existing sections of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 551.041, as amended by Ordinance No. 697-10, passed August 18,
2010;
Section 551.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 773-A-80, passed December
14, 1981, and
Sections 551.111 and 551.991 as
amended by Ordinance No. 1291-11,
passed December 9, 2011 are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

Ord. No. 1345-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Department of Health and the
Academy of Educational Development for the 2015-2017 Federal AIDS
Prevention Program; and to enter into
contracts with various agencies to
implement the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $2,613,900, and any other
funds as they become available during the grant term, from the Ohio
Department of Health and the Academy of Educational Development, to
conduct the 2015-2017 Federal AIDS
Prevention Program, for the purposes
in the summary and according thereto; that the Director of Public Health
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes in the executive summary
for the grant.
Section 2. That the executive summary for the grant, File No. 1345-14-A,
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, as presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
the public hearing on this legislation,
is approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into

47

one or more contracts to implement
the program as described in the summary contained in the file with the
following agencies, in the following
approximate annual amounts:
Agency

Amount

AIDS Taskforce of Greater
Cleveland
$ 65,000
Cleveland Treatment Center
106,400
Free Clinic of Greater
Cleveland
71,360
MetroHealth Medical Center
130,000
Northeast Ohio Neighborhood
Health Services, Inc. (“NEON”)
60,000
Planned Parenthood of
Greater Ohio
75,000
Recovery Resources
56,000
Cleveland PRIDE
1,500
TOTAL$
565,260
In addition, the approximate sum of
$107,543 is annually appropriated to
the Department of Public Health for
administrative costs of implementing
this program and the approximate
sum of $198,497 is appropriated to the
Department of Public Health for the
operation of the Disease Intervention
Specialist Services Program and services conducted by the Department.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term and shall have the
authority to enter into one or more
contracts with additional agencies or
entities as approved by the grantors.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 6. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 7. That the cost of the contracts authorized in this ordinance
shall be paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds
accepted under this ordinance.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

Ord. No. 1346-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Department of Health for the
2014-15 Healthy Weight Program.

1843

Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $15,000, and any other
funds that may become available during the grant term from the Ohio
Department of Health to conduct the
2014-15 Healthy Weight Program;
that the Director is authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the executive summary
for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the executive summary for the grant, presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
a public hearing on this legislation
and set forth in File No. 1346-14-A, is
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, is approved in all
respects, and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to extend the
term of the grant during the grant
term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(B) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process. The contracts will be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited any grant
funds accepted under this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

Ord. No. 1347-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Department of Health for the
2015-2017 STD Control Prevention Program; authorizing the Director to
enter into contracts with various
agencies or entities to implement the
grant; and to enter into an agreement
with the Ohio Department of Health
for the City to receive payments from
the Medicaid program.

48
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $393,864, and any other
funds as they become available during the grant term, from the Ohio
Department of Health, to conduct the
2014 STD Control Prevention Program, for the purposes in the summary and budget and according thereto;
that the Director of Public Health is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes in the summary for the
grant.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, File No. 1347-14-A, made a part
of this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
as presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in
all respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with various
agencies or entities to implement the
grant as described in the file.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
an agreement with the Ohio Department of Health for the City to receive
payments from the Medicaid programs to implement this ordinance.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to charge and
accept fees from participants of this
program and to deposit those fees into
a revolving fund which will be used to
provide additional materials, equipment, supplies, and services under the
program described in the file, and the
funds are appropriated for that purpose.
Section 7. That in addition, the
approximate sum of $33,593 is annually appropriated to the Department of
Public Health for administrative
costs of implementing this program
and the approximate sum of $97,695 is
appropriated to the Department of
Public Health for the operation of the
Disease Intervention Specialist Services Program and services conducted by the Department.
Section 8. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 9. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 10. That the costs of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund

The City Record
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds, Medicaid payments
accepted under this ordinance, and
from the fund or funds to which are
credited any fees received under this
program.
Section 11. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

Ord. No. 1348-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Kelley, J. Johnson and Polensek (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to apply to the District
One Public Works Integrating Committee for state funding for the rehabilitation of U.S. Route 42, Scranton
Road/Carter Road, Clark Avenue,
and East 152nd Street; to apply for
and accept grants from various entities for the improvements; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
enter into contracts and agreements
to design and construct the improvements and other agreements needed
for the improvements; and authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to acquire, accept, and
record for right-of-way purposes real
property and easements necessary to
make the improvement.
Whereas, under Article VIII, Section 2k of the Ohio Constitution, the
State of Ohio is authorized to issue
bonds and other obligations of the
State for the purpose of financing
public infrastructure capital improvements of political subdivisions as designated by law; and
Whereas, under Section 164.03 of
the Revised Code, the District One
Public Work Integrating Committee
has been created to evaluate applications for state financing of capital
improvement projects of local subdivisions in Cuyahoga County; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Mayor is authorized to apply to the District One Public Works Integrating Committee for
state funding for the following infrastructure capital improvements:
1. U.S. Route 42 (Pearl Road) from
Brookpark Road to Interstate 71;
2. Scranton Road/Carter Road from
Fairfield Avenue to Columbus Road;
3. Clark Avenue from Lorain
Avenue to West 41st Street;
4. East 152nd Street from Woodworth Road to Waterloo Road
Section 2. That the Mayor is authorized to apply to the District One Public Works Integrating Committee for
to
obtain
credit
state
funding
enhancements and loan assistance in
support of the city’s bonds issued for
bridge and road improvements.
Section 3. That the Mayor is authorized to accept one or more grants
from the Ohio Public Works Commission, acting by and through its Director, and to apply for and accept grants

1844

December 10, 2014
or other funding from other public or
private entities, to finance the public
improvements of rehabilitation of US
Route 42, Scranton/Carter Roads,
Clark Avenue, and East 152nd Street,
more fully described in Section 1 of
this ordinance (the “Improvement”);
that the Mayor is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in this ordinance.
Section 4. That, provided the City
sells bonds in 2015 authorized for the
purposes of this ordinance, the City of
Cleveland is obligated to provide cash
matching funds in the amount of the
local share, in the approximate aggregate amount of $4,937,837.
Section 5. That, provided the City
sells bonds in 2015 authorized for the
purposes of this ordinance, the Director of Capital Projects is authorized
to employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of supplementing the regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional design,
engineering and construction services necessary for the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Capital Projects from
a list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Capital Projects for the purpose of compiling a
list. The compensation to be paid for
the services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract or contracts shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director
of Capital Projects and certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 6. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement as described in
this ordinance, for the Office of Capital Projects, by one or more contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the Improvement.
Section 7. That, provided the City
sells bonds in 2015 authorized for the
purposes of this ordinance, the Director of Capital Projects is authorized
to enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the Improvement with
the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a
unit basis for the Improvement, provided, however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of the Improvement may be treated as a separate improvement, and
each, or any combination, of the
trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract on a unit
basis.
Section 8. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept
cash contributions from public or private entities, NEORSD, and GCRTA for
infrastructure restoration costs associated with relocating, rehabilitating or
reconstructing utility infrastructure
for the Improvement and costs associated with implementing green infrastructure features to address combined
sewer overflows. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into agreements with the entities for
this purpose.

December 10, 2014
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with private
utility companies to pay charges for
the installation of underground lines
in connection with the Improvement.
Section 10. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire, accept, and record for rightof-way purposes any real property
and easements necessary to make the
Improvement. The consideration to be
paid for the property and easements
shall not exceed fair market value to
be determined by the Board of Control.
Section 11. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute,
on behalf of the City, all documents
necessary to acquire, accept, and
record the property and easements
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers, and all other costs necessary for the acquisition of the property and easements.
Section 12. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into one or more Local Project Administration agreements with the Ohio
Department of Transportation to fund
and construct the Improvement.
Section 13. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply for
and accept Federal Transportation
Enhancement grant funds from Federal Highway Administration, to construct the Improvement. The Director
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in this ordinance.
Section 14. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply to
NOACA to pursue economic assistance, on behalf of the City of Cleveland, for the Improvement.
Section 15. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept
the funds from NOACA for the
Improvement, and those funds are
appropriated for the purposes stated
in this ordinance.
Section 16. That the Mayor or Director of Capital Projects is authorized
to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds
under this ordinance; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the ordinance.
Section 17. That the cost of the contracts, payments, property acquisition, cash matches, and other expenditures authorized shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited any grant proceeds authorized
under this ordinance, the fund or
funds to which are credited any funds
received under the Local Project
Administration agreement, the fund
or funds to which are credited any
funds secured by NOACA, fund or
funds to which are credited any proceeds from the sale of 2015 bonds if
authorized by this Council and sold
for this purpose, from cash contributions accepted and appropriated
under this ordinance, and from any
other funds approved by the Director
of Finance for this purpose.
Section 18. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately

The City Record
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

Ord. No. 1349-14.
By Council Members Reed, K. Johnson and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
County of Cuyahoga for the resurfacing of Turney Road from Warner
Road to the Cleveland south corporation line; authorizing the Director of
Capital Projects to enter into any relative agreements; to apply for and
accept an allocation of County Motor
Vehicle License Tax Funds for the
improvement; and authorizing the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire, accept, and record for
right-of-way purposes any real property and easements necessary to
make the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Consent. That it is
declared to be in the public interest
that the consent of the City of Cleveland is given to the County of Cuyahoga (the “County”) to construct the
following improvement under plans,
specifications,
and
estimates
approved by the County: resurfacing
of Turney Road from Warner Road to
the Cleveland south corporation line
(County ID No. 1082) (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. Cooperation
(a) That the City will cooperate
with the County in the Improvement.
(b) That the County will arrange
for the preparation of construction
plans and specifications, including
necessary engineering reports for the
Improvement, under Current Cuyahoga County standards for construction of County roads and bridges.
(c) That the County will arrange
for the supervision and administration of the construction project.
(d) That the City agrees to assume
and contribute 100% of the cost of any
items included in the construction
contract at the request of the City,
which are determined by the County
to be not eligible or made necessary
by the Improvement.
Section 3. Funding
(a) That the City agrees to cooperate with the County in the cost of the
Improvement by an allocation from
the County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Fund; and by applying to the
County to use the License Tax Funds
for the Improvement.
(b) That if funds administered by
the Ohio Public Works Commission
are used for the Improvement, the
amount of the funds shall be applied
to the County’s share of the costs specified in this ordinance.
Section 4. Maintenance. That upon
completion of the Improvement, the
City will keep the highway open to
traffic at all times; and
(a) Maintain the Improvement in
accordance with the provisions of the
statutes relating thereto and make
ample financial provisions for the
maintenance;

1845

49
(b) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstructions in a manner satisfactory to the County and
hold the right-of-way inviolate for
public highway purposes and permit
no signs, posters, billboards, roadside
stands or other private installations
within the right-of-way limits;
(c) That the County shall continue
to maintain the structural elements of
any bridge (defined as a structure
with a span of twenty feet or greater)
located within the limits of the
Improvement under the applicable
sections of the Revised Code; and
(d) After construction of the
Improvement is complete, the City
agrees to follow and maintain postconstruction Best Management Practices as outlined in the Municipal
Storm Water Permit that is filed with
the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency.
Section 5. Traffic. That on completion of the Improvement, the City will
keep the highway open to traffic at
all times; and
(a) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices conforming to the
Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices on the Improvement in
compliance with the provisions of Section 4511.11 of the Revised Code and
other related sections of the Revised
Code;
(b) That the street or highway
within the limits of the Improvement
is designated a through highway as
provided in division (A)(6) of Section
4511.07 of the Revised Code;
(c) That stop signs affecting the
movement of traffic on the street or
highway within the Improvement
shall be removed, and no stop signs
shall be erected on same except at its
intersection with another through
highway where traffic does not warrant the installation of a traffic control signal but where the warrants for
a “Four-Way Stop” as provided in the
above-mentioned Manual are met;
(d) That no rule or regulation shall
be enacted restricting the use of the
Improvement by any class of vehicle
or vehicle load permitted by the
Revised Code to use a public highway. Any existing rule or regulation
so restricting road usage is rescinded;
and
(e) The City shall regulate parking
in the following manner: Prohibit
parking under Section 4511.66 of the
Revised Code unless otherwise controlled by local ordinance or resolution.
Section 6. Right-of-Way
(a) That all existing street and
public right-of-way within the City
which is necessary for the Improvement shall be made available.
(b) That in the event any additional right-of-way is required, the City
will arrange for the acquisition.
Section 7. Utilities
(a) That the City will make
arrangements
with
and
obtain
arrangements from all privatelyowned public utility companies
whose lines or structures will be
affected by the Improvement, and the
companies have agreed to make any
and all necessary arrangements in
such a manner as to be clear of any
construction called for by the plans
for the Improvement, and the companies have agreed to make necessary
rearrangements immediately after
notification by the City.
(b) That the County will participate in the costs of alterations of
governmentally-owned
utility
facilities which come within the
provisions of Section 8204 (Utility

50
Reimbursement Eligibility) of the
Ohio Department of Transportation’s Real Estate Policies and
Procedures Manual to the same
extent that it participates in the
other costs of the Improvement,
provided, however, that such participation will not extend to any
additions or betterments of existing facilities.
(c) That it is agreed that the City
shall, at its own expense, make all
rearrangements of water mains, service, lines, fire hydrants, valve boxes,
sanitary sewers, or other city-owned
utilities and/or appurtenances thereto which do not comply with the Provisions of Section 8204 (Utility Reimbursement Eligibility) of the Ohio
Department of Transportation’s Real
Estate Policies and Procedures Manual, whether inside or outside the corporate limits, as may be necessary to
conform to the Improvement.
(d) That the construction, reconstruction, and/or arrangement of all
utilities shall be done in a manner as
not to interfere unduly with the operation of the contractor constructing
the Improvement, and all backfilling
of trenches made necessary by utility
rearrangements shall be performed
under the provisions of the ODOT
Construction and Material Specifications.
Section 8. Miscellaneous
(a) That if the County is formally
requested by ordinance of this Council to include the construction of sanitary sewers, water lines, area sewers
(drainage of area surrounding the
Improvement), sidewalks, alternate
bid items, or other items in the
Improvement that are in addition to
those now existing and not provided
for elsewhere in this ordinance, the
County will do so, provided that the
construction meets with the approval
of the County and the City involved in
this Improvement; and that the City
agrees to pay, or make arrangements
for the payment of the cost of the construction, cost of preliminary and
design engineering, and construction
supervision.
(b) For purposes of this ordinance,
the agent for the County and liaison
officer shall be the County Engineer
of Cuyahoga County, Ohio, and/or
such members of his staff as he may
designate.
(c) That the City agrees to conduct
this transaction by electronic means
and agrees that all documents requiring County signatures may be executed by electronic means, and that the
electronic signatures affixed by the
County to the documents shall have
the same legal effect as if that signature was manually affixed to a paper
version of the document. The City
also agrees on behalf of the aforementioned entities and persons to be
bound by the provisions of Chapters
304 and 1306 of the Revised Code as
they pertain to electronic transactions, and to comply with the electronic signature policy of the County.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
agreements necessary to complete the
Improvement.
Section 10. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply to
the County for approval to use County
Motor Vehicle License Tax funds to
pay for the Improvement, to accept
the funds and to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes set
forth above.

The City Record
Section 11. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire, accept, and record for rightof-way purposes any real property
and easements as is necessary to
make the improvements described in
this ordinance. The consideration to
be paid for the property and easements shall not exceed fair market
value to be determined by the Board
of Control.
Section 12. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City all documents
necessary to acquire, accept, and
record the property and easements
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers, and all other costs necessary for the acquisition of the property and easements.
Section 13. That this Council
requests the County to proceed with
the Improvement.
Section 14. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit to the County three (3) certified copies of this
ordinance immediately on its taking
effect.
Section 15. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

Ord. No. 1350-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the general fund to receive and
use revenue from tax remittances collected by Cleveland Public Power during the years 2015 and 2016 and transfer 50% of tax receipts collected in
both years back to Cleveland Public
Power.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 91098, passed February 14, 2000, this
Council authorized, among other
things, that Cleveland Public Power
shall receive from the general fund
an amount equal to eighty-five percent (85%) of the tax remittances due
the City collected by Cleveland Public
Power under Section 5727.81 of the
Revised Code; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 188602, passed October 28, 2002, this Council directed that the general fund
shall retain all of the tax remittances
collected by Cleveland Public Power
during 2003; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 208803, passed October 27, 2003, this Council directed that the general fund
shall retain all of the tax remittances
collected by Cleveland Public Power
during 2004; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 219704, passed January 10, 2005, this Council directed that the general fund
shall retain all of the tax remittances
collected by Cleveland Public Power
during 2004; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 2068-05,
passed November 21, 2005, repealed a
portion of Ordinance No. 1886-02 relating to the increase in incremental

1846

December 10, 2014
charges and collection of tax remittances described in Ordinance No. 91098; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 15806, passed March 20, 2006, this Council
directed that the general fund shall
retain all of the tax remittances collected by Cleveland Public Power during 2005; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 184206, passed February 5, 2007, this Council directed that the general fund
shall retain all of the tax remittances
collected by Cleveland Public Power
during 2006; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 176807, passed December 10, 2007, this
Council directed that the general
fund shall retain 50% of the tax remittances collected by Cleveland Public
Power during 2007, and 50% of the tax
remittances shall be transferred to
Cleveland Public Power on an annual
basis; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 124809, passed September 28, 2009, this
Council directed that the General
Fund retains all of the tax remittances collected by Cleveland Public
power during 2009 and 2010; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 156010, passed November 29, 2010, this
Council directed the retention and use
of revenue by the general fund from
tax remittance collected by Cleveland
Public Power during the years 2011
and 2012; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 19313, passed March 18, 2013, this Council
directed the retention and use of revenue by the general fund from tax
remittance collected by Cleveland
Public Power during the years 2013
and 2014; and
Whereas, legislative authority is
necessary to clarify that the general
fund shall receive all tax remittances
collected by Cleveland Public Power
during 2015 and 2016 and transfer 50%
of the tax receipts collected in 2015
and 2016 back to Cleveland Public
Power; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That as an exception to
Ordinance No. 910-98, passed February 14, 2000, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1886-02, passed October 28, 2002,
partially repealed by Ordinance No.
2068-05, passed November 21, 2005;
Ordinance No. 2088-03, passed October
27, 2003; Ordinance No. 2197-04, passed
January 10, 2005; Ordinance No. 158-06,
passed March 20, 2006; Ordinance No.
1842-06, passed February 5, 2007; Ordinance No. 1768-07, passed December
10, 2007; Ordinance No. 1248-09, passed
September 28, 2009; Ordinance No.
1560-10, passed November 29, 2010; and
Ordinance No. 193-13, passed March 18,
2013, the general fund shall receive
all tax remittances collected under
Section 5727.81 of the Revised Code
during calendar years 2015 and 2016
and shall transfer 50% of the tax
receipts collected in 2015 and 2016
back to Cleveland Public Power.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

December 10, 2014
Ord. No. 1383-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Alcohol Drug Addiction and Mental
Health Services Board of Cuyahoga
County for the 2015 Mental Health
and Substance Abuse Prevention Program; and to enter into one or more
agreements with the Board for the
City to receive payments from the
Medicaid program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $330,068 and any other
funds that may become available during the grant term, from the Alcohol
Drug Addiction and Mental Health
Services Board of Cuyahoga County
to conduct the 2015 Mental Health and
Substance Abuse Prevention Program; that the Director of Public
Health is authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary
to receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes set forth in the executive summary for the grant contained in the file described below.
Section 2. That the executive summary for the grant, presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
a public hearing on this legislation
and set forth in File No. 1383-14-A, is
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, is approved in all
respects, and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
Alcohol Drug Addiction and Mental
Health Services Board of Cuyahoga
County for the City to receive payments from the Medicaid programs
for alcohol drug addiction and mental
health services provided by the City.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to charge and
accept fees from participants of this
program, according to the sliding fee
scale placed in the file, and to deposit
those fees into a revolving fund
which will be used to provide additional materials equipment, supplies,
and services under the program
described in the file, and the funds
are appropriated for that purpose.
Section 7. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts

The City Record
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 8. That the costs of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds, Medicaid payments
accepted under this ordinance, and
from the fund or funds to which are
credited any fees received under this
program.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

Ord. No. 1384-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Department of Health for the
Title X Program; authorizing the
director to charge and accept fees;
entering into one or more agreements
to receive payments from Medicare,
Medicaid and Medicaid HMO programs; contracting with various entities, authorizing one or more requirement contracts; and authorizing the
purchase or lease of television and
radio advertising time and other
media.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $706,817 and any other
funds that may become available during the grant term, from the Ohio
Department of Health to conduct the
Title X Program; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes set forth in the executive
summary for the grant contained in
the file described below.
Section 2. That the executive summary for the grant, File No. 1384-14-A,
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, as presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
the public hearing on this legislation,
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority, is
approved in all respects, including
the obligation to devote program
income from first and third party
billings.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements necessary for
the City to receive payments from
Medicare, Medicaid and Medicaid
HMOs to implement the grant as
described in the file.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with various
entities, including but not limited to,
The MetroHealth System, a county
hospital, organized under R.C. 339

1847

51
and Case Western Reserve University
ID Alliance, necessary to implement
the grant as described in the file.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to make one
or more written contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the purchase or lease, during the grant term,
of television and radio advertising
time and other media, for the Department of Public Health.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements during the
grant term of the necessary items of
materials, equipment, supplies, and
services needed to implement the
grant as described in the file, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Department of Public
Health. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids for
a period less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 7. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 8. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 9. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to charge and
accept fees from participants of this
program and to deposit those fees into
a revolving fund which will be used to
provide additional materials, equipment, supplies, and services under the
program described in the file, and the
funds are appropriated for that purpose.
Section 10. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 11. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 12. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds which are credited the grant
proceeds, the first and third party
billings, and from the Medicaid reimbursements accepted under this ordinance.

52
Section 13. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

Ord. No. 1418-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to employ one or more professional consultants to provide grant
writing services; and authorizing the
Director of Community Development
to apply for and accept the Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration or Lead
Hazard Control Grant and the
Healthy Homes Grant both from the
U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development; authorizing the
purchase by one or more standard and
requirement contracts of materials,
equipment, supplies, and services necessary to implement the grants and
for the rental of furniture and other
household articles to supply and
accommodate displaced persons; and
authorizing one or more contracts
with various entities, agencies, or
individuals to implement the grants.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one or
more consultants or one or more firms
of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to provide grant writing services
needed to assist the City with preparing the applications needed to receive
the grants identified in this ordinance.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Community Development from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Community Development for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Community Development, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
apply for and accept either the Lead
Hazard Reduction Demonstration or
Lead Hazard Control Grant, in the
amount of up to approximately
$3,500,000 and to apply for and accept
the Healthy Homes grant in the
amount of up to approximately
$500,000, and any other funds that
may become available during the
grant terms, both from the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban

The City Record
Development to conduct the Lead
Hazard Reduction Demonstration or
Lead Hazard Control Grant and the
Healthy Homes Programs; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grants; and that the funds are
for
the
purposes
appropriated
described in the Executive Summary
contained in the file below.
Section 3. That the Executive Summary, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 1418-14-A, are made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
are approved in all respects, and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 4. That the Director of Community Development shall have the
authority to extend the term of the
grants during the grant terms.
Section 5. That the Director of Community Development shall deposit the
grants accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
programs as described in the file and
appropriated for those purposes.
Section 6. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
make one or more written standard
purchase and/or written requirement
purchase contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the period during
the grant terms, for each or all of the
following items: materials, equipment, supplies, and services needed to
implement the grant and for the
rental of furniture and other household articles to supply and accommodate displaced persons during lead
abatement performed under the
grants as described in the file, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis, for the Department of Community Development. Bids shall be taken
in a manner that permits an award to
be made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines.
Section 7. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase or procurement under the contract, each of which purchases or procurements shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies by a delivery order issued
against the contract or contracts and
certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 8. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreements,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases or procurements made
under the grant agreements may be
made through cooperative arrangements with other governmental agencies. The Director of Community
Development may sign all documents
and do all things that are necessary to
make the purchases or procurements,
and may enter into one or more contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 9. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts with
or make payments to various entities,
agencies, or individuals to implement
the grants as described in the file.
Section 10. That the costs of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance and administrative costs

1848

December 10, 2014
shall be paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds
accepted under this ordinance, except
for the professional services for grant
writing authorized in Section 1 of this
ordinance, which shall be paid from
Fund No. 14 SF 040, RQS 8006, RL 2014121.
Section 11. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

Ord. No. 1439-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli, K.
Johnson and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for repairing pavement
along a portion of Broadview Road;
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to enter into any relative
agreements; and causing payment of
the City’s share to the State for the
cost of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be in
the public interest that the consent of
the City of Cleveland is given to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio (“the State”) to construct the following improvement
under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the State: repairing pavement along Broadview Road
between Brookpark Road and Pearl
Road, PID No. 98624 (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City proposes to
cooperate with the State in the cost of
the Improvement by assuming and
contributing the entire cost and
expense of the Improvement, less the
amount of federal funds allocated by
the Federal Highway Administration,
United States Department of Transportation. The City agrees to assume
one hundred percent (100%) of the
cost of preliminary engineering,
right-of-way and environmental documentation. Also, the City agrees to
assume and contribute 100% of the
cost of any items included in the construction contract at the request of
the City, which are determined by the
State not eligible or made necessary
by the Improvement. The share of the
cost of the City is estimated in the
amount of $400,000, but the estimated
amount is to be adjusted in order that
the City’s ultimate share of the
Improvement shall correspond with
the percentages of actual costs when
the actual costs are determined.
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
State necessary to complete the planning and construction of the Improvement, which agreements shall contain
terms and conditions that the Director
of Law determines shall best protect
the public interest.

December 10, 2014
Section 4. Utilities and Right-ofWay Statement. The City agrees to
acquire and/or make available to
ODOT, under current State and Federal regulations, all necessary right-ofway required for the Improvement.
The City also understands that rightof-way costs include eligible utility
costs. The City agrees to be responsible for all utility accommodation,
relocation, and reimbursement and
agrees that all such accommodations,
and
reimbursements
relocations,
shall comply with the current provisions of 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT
Utilities Manual.
Section 5. Maintenance. Upon completion of the Improvement, and
unless otherwise agreed, the City
shall: (1) provide adequate maintenance for the Improvement under all
applicable state and federal laws,
including, but not limited to, 23 USC
116; (2) provide ample financial provisions, as necessary, for the maintenance of the Improvement; (3) maintain the right-of-way, keeping it free
of obstructions; and (4) hold said
right-of-way inviolate for public highway purposes.
Section 6. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
contracts with ODOT pre-qualified
consultants for the preliminary engineering phase of the Improvement
and to enter into contracts with the
Director of Transportation necessary
to complete the above described project. Upon the request of ODOT, the
Director of Capital Projects is also
authorized to assign all rights, title,
and interests of the City to ODOT arising from any agreement with its consultant in order to allow ODOT to
direct additional or corrective work,
recover damages due to errors or
omissions, and to exercise all other
contractual rights and remedies
afforded by law or equity.
Section 7. That the City agrees that
if Federal Funds are used to pay the
cost of any consultant contract, the
City shall comply with 23 CFR 172 in
the selection of its consultant and the
administration of the consultant contract. Further, the City agrees to
incorporate ODOT’s “Specifications
for Consulting Services” as a contract
document in all of its consultant contracts. The City agrees to require, as a
scope of services clause, that all plans
prepared by the consultant must conform to ODOT’s current design standards and that the consultant shall be
responsible for ongoing consultant
involvement during the construction
phase of the Improvement. The City
agrees to include a completion schedule acceptable to ODOT and to assist
ODOT in rating the consultant’s performance through ODOT’s Consultant
Evaluation System.
Section
8.
That
this
Council
requests the State to proceed with the
Improvement.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
any agreements necessary to implement the improvement.
Section 10. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to transmit to the State three (3) certified
copies of this ordinance immediately
on its taking effect, and it shall
become the basis for proceeding with
the Improvement.
Section 11. That this Council authorizes payment to the State of the
City’s share of the Improvement from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF
534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, and

The City Record
20 SF 563, and any all funds approved
by the Director of Finance, including
future bond funds if issued for this
purpose, Request No. RQS 0103, RL
2014-128.
Section 12. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

Ord. No. 1440-14.
By Council Members Cleveland, K.
Johnson and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for repairing pavement
along a portion of Community College
Avenue; authorizing the Director of
Capital Projects to enter into any relative agreements; and causing payment of the City’s share to the State
for the cost of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be in
the public interest that the consent of
the City of Cleveland is given to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio (“the State”) to construct the following improvement
under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the State: repairing pavement on Community College
Avenue between East 22nd Street and
East 40th Street, PID No. 98804 (the
“Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City proposes to
cooperate with the State in the cost of
the Improvement by assuming and
contributing the entire cost and
expense of the Improvement, less the
amount of federal funds allocated by
the Federal Highway Administration,
United States Department of Transportation. The City agrees to assume
one hundred percent (100%) of the
cost of preliminary engineering,
right-of-way and environmental documentation. Also, the City agrees to
assume and contribute 100% of the
cost of any items included in the construction contract at the request of
the City, which are determined by the
State not eligible or made necessary
by the Improvement. The share of the
cost of the City is estimated in the
amount of $240,000, but the estimated
amount is to be adjusted in order that
the City’s ultimate share of the
Improvement shall correspond with
the percentages of actual costs when
the actual costs are determined.
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
State necessary to complete the planning and construction of the Improvement, which agreements shall contain
terms and conditions that the Director
of Law determines shall best protect
the public interest.
Section 4. Utilities and Right-ofWay Statement. The City agrees to
acquire and/or make available to

1849

53
ODOT, under current State and Federal regulations, all necessary right-ofway required for the Improvement.
The City also understands that rightof-way costs include eligible utility
costs. The City agrees to be responsible for all utility accommodation,
relocation, and reimbursement and
agrees that all such accommodations,
relocations,
and
reimbursements
shall comply with the current provisions of 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT
Utilities Manual.
Section 5. Maintenance. Upon completion of the Improvement, and
unless otherwise agreed, the City
shall: (1) provide adequate maintenance for the Improvement under all
applicable state and federal laws,
including, but not limited to, 23 USC
116; (2) provide ample financial provisions, as necessary, for the maintenance of the Improvement; (3) maintain the right-of-way, keeping it free
of obstructions; and (4) hold said
right-of-way inviolate for public highway purposes.
Section 6. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
contracts with ODOT pre-qualified
consultants for the preliminary engineering phase of the Improvement
and to enter into contracts with the
Director of Transportation necessary
to complete the above described project. Upon the request of ODOT, the
Director of Capital Projects is also
authorized to assign all rights, title,
and interests of the City to ODOT arising from any agreement with its consultant in order to allow ODOT to
direct additional or corrective work,
recover damages due to errors or
omissions, and to exercise all other
contractual rights and remedies
afforded by law or equity.
Section 7. That the City agrees that
if Federal Funds are used to pay the
cost of any consultant contract, the
City shall comply with 23 CFR 172 in
the selection of its consultant and the
administration of the consultant contract. Further, the City agrees to
incorporate ODOT’s “Specifications
for Consulting Services” as a contract
document in all of its consultant contracts. The City agrees to require, as a
scope of services clause, that all plans
prepared by the consultant must conform to ODOT’s current design standards and that the consultant shall be
responsible for ongoing consultant
involvement during the construction
phase of the Improvement. The City
agrees to include a completion schedule acceptable to ODOT and to assist
ODOT in rating the consultant’s performance through ODOT’s Consultant
Evaluation System.
Section
8.
That
this
Council
requests the State to proceed with the
Improvement.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
any agreements necessary to implement the improvement.
Section 10. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to transmit to the State three (3) certified
copies of this ordinance immediately
on its taking effect, and it shall
become the basis for proceeding with
the Improvement.
Section 11. That this Council authorizes payment to the State of the
City’s share of the Improvement from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF
534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, and
20 SF 563, and any all funds approved
by the Director of Finance, including
future bond funds if issued for this

54
purpose, Request No. RQS 0103, RL
2014-137.
Section 12. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

Ord. No. 1441-14.
By Council Members Conwell, K.
Johnson and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for repairing pavement
along a portion of East Boulevard and
Ford Drive; authorizing the Director
of Capital Projects to enter into any
relative agreements; and causing
payment of the City’s share to the
State for the cost of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be in
the public interest that the consent of
the City of Cleveland is given to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio (“the State”) to construct the following improvement
under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the State: repairing pavement along East Boulevard
and Ford Drive between Euclid
Avenue and St. Clair Avenue, PID No.
98805 (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City proposes to
cooperate with the State in the cost of
the Improvement by assuming and
contributing the entire cost and
expense of the Improvement, less the
amount of federal funds allocated by
the Federal Highway Administration,
United States Department of Transportation. The City agrees to assume
one hundred percent (100%) of the
cost of preliminary engineering,
right-of-way and environmental documentation. Also, the City agrees to
assume and contribute 100% of the
cost of any items included in the construction contract at the request of
the City, which are determined by the
State not eligible or made necessary
by the Improvement. The share of the
cost of the City is estimated in the
amount of $460,000, but the estimated
amount is to be adjusted in order that
the City’s ultimate share of the
Improvement shall correspond with
the percentages of actual costs when
the actual costs are determined.
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
State necessary to complete the planning and construction of the Improvement, which agreements shall contain
terms and conditions that the Director
of Law determines shall best protect
the public interest.
Section 4. Utilities and Right-ofWay Statement. The City agrees to
acquire and/or make available to
ODOT, under current State and Federal regulations, all necessary right-ofway required for the Improvement.

The City Record
The City also understands that rightof-way costs include eligible utility
costs. The City agrees to be responsible for all utility accommodation,
relocation, and reimbursement and
agrees that all such accommodations,
relocations,
and
reimbursements
shall comply with the current provisions of 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT
Utilities Manual.
Section 5. Maintenance. Upon completion of the Improvement, and
unless otherwise agreed, the City
shall: (1) provide adequate maintenance for the Improvement under all
applicable state and federal laws,
including, but not limited to, 23 USC
116; (2) provide ample financial provisions, as necessary, for the maintenance of the Improvement; (3) maintain the right-of-way, keeping it free
of obstructions; and (4) hold said
right-of-way inviolate for public highway purposes.
Section 6. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
contracts with ODOT pre-qualified
consultants for the preliminary engineering phase of the Improvement
and to enter into contracts with the
Director of Transportation necessary
to complete the above described project. Upon the request of ODOT, the
Director of Capital Projects is also
authorized to assign all rights, title,
and interests of the City to ODOT arising from any agreement with its consultant in order to allow ODOT to
direct additional or corrective work,
recover damages due to errors or
omissions, and to exercise all other
contractual rights and remedies
afforded by law or equity.
Section 7. That the City agrees that
if Federal Funds are used to pay the
cost of any consultant contract, the
City shall comply with 23 CFR 172 in
the selection of its consultant and the
administration of the consultant contract. Further, the City agrees to
incorporate ODOT’s “Specifications
for Consulting Services” as a contract
document in all of its consultant contracts. The City agrees to require, as a
scope of services clause, that all plans
prepared by the consultant must conform to ODOT’s current design standards and that the consultant shall be
responsible for ongoing consultant
involvement during the construction
phase of the Improvement. The City
agrees to include a completion schedule acceptable to ODOT and to assist
ODOT in rating the consultant’s performance through ODOT’s Consultant
Evaluation System.
Section
8.
That
this
Council
requests the State to proceed with the
Improvement.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
any agreements necessary to implement the improvement.
Section 10. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to transmit to the State three (3) certified
copies of this ordinance immediately
on its taking effect, and it shall
become the basis for proceeding with
the Improvement.
Section 11. That this Council authorizes payment to the State of the
City’s share of the Improvement from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF
534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, and
20 SF 563, and any all funds approved
by the Director of Finance, including
future bond funds if issued for this
purpose, Request No. RQS 0103, RL
2014-142.

1850

December 10, 2014
Section 12. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

Ord. No. 1442-14.
By Council Members Pruitt, Reed,
K. Johnson, Kelley and Brancatelli
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for repairing pavement
along a portion of Harvard Avenue;
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to enter into any relative
agreements; and causing payment of
the City’s share to the State for the
cost of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be in
the public interest that the consent of
the City of Cleveland is given to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio (“the State”) to construct the following improvement
under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the State: repairing pavement along Harvard Avenue
from the west corporation line to East
93rd Street, PID No. 98807 (the
“Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City proposes to
cooperate with the State in the cost of
the Improvement by assuming and
contributing the entire cost and
expense of the Improvement, less the
amount of federal funds allocated by
the Federal Highway Administration,
United States Department of Transportation. The City agrees to assume
one hundred percent (100%) of the
cost of preliminary engineering,
right-of-way and environmental documentation. Also, the City agrees to
assume and contribute 100% of the
cost of any items included in the construction contract at the request of
the City, which are determined by the
State not eligible or made necessary
by the Improvement. The share of the
cost of the City is estimated in the
amount of $320,000, but the estimated
amount is to be adjusted in order that
the City’s ultimate share of the
Improvement shall correspond with
the percentages of actual costs when
the actual costs are determined.
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
State necessary to complete the planning and construction of the Improvement, which agreements shall contain
terms and conditions that the Director
of Law determines shall best protect
the public interest.
Section 4. Utilities and Right-ofWay Statement. The City agrees to
acquire and/or make available to
ODOT, under current State and Federal regulations, all necessary right-ofway required for the Improvement.
The City also understands that rightof-way costs include eligible utility
costs. The City agrees to be responsible for all utility accommodation,

December 10, 2014
relocation, and reimbursement and
agrees that all such accommodations,
relocations,
and
reimbursements
shall comply with the current provisions of 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT
Utilities Manual.
Section 5. Maintenance. Upon completion of the Improvement, and
unless otherwise agreed, the City
shall: (1) provide adequate maintenance for the Improvement under all
applicable state and federal law,
including, but not limited to, 23 USC
116; (2) provide ample financial provisions, as necessary, for the maintenance of the Improvement; (3) maintain the right-of-way, keeping it free
of obstructions; and (4) hold said
right-of-way inviolate for public highway purposes.
Section 6. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
contracts with ODOT pre-qualified
consultants for the preliminary engineering phase of the Improvement
and to enter into contracts with the
Director of Transportation necessary
to complete the above described project. Upon the request of ODOT, the
Director of Capital Projects is also
authorized to assign all rights, title,
and interests of the City to ODOT arising from any agreement with its consultant in order to allow ODOT to
direct additional or corrective work,
recover damages due to errors or
omissions, and to exercise all other
contractual rights and remedies
afforded by law or equity.
Section 7. That the City agrees that
if Federal Funds are used to pay the
cost of any consultant contract, the
City shall comply with 23 CFR 172 in
the selection of its consultant and the
administration of the consultant contract. Further, the City agrees to
incorporate ODOT’s “Specifications
for Consulting Services” as a contract
document in all of its consultant contracts. The City agrees to require, as a
scope of services clause, that all plans
prepared by the consultant must conform to ODOT’s current design standards and that the consultant shall be
responsible for ongoing consultant
involvement during the construction
phase of the Improvement. The City
agrees to include a completion schedule acceptable to ODOT and to assist
ODOT in rating the consultant’s performance through ODOT’s Consultant
Evaluation System.
Section
8.
That
this
Council
requests the State to proceed with the
Improvement.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
any agreements necessary to implement the improvement.
Section 10. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to transmit to the State three (3) certified
copies of this ordinance immediately
on its taking effect, and it shall
become the basis for proceeding with
the Improvement.
Section 11. That this Council authorizes payment to the State of the
City’s share of the Improvement from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF
534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, and
20 SF 563, and any all funds approved
by the Director of Finance, including
future bond funds if issued for this
purpose, Request No. RQS 0103, RL
2014-129.
Section 12. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take

The City Record
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

Ord. No. 1443-14.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Cleveland, K. Johnson and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for repairing pavement
along a portion of Prospect Avenue;
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to enter into any relative
agreements; and causing payment of
the City’s share to the State for the
cost of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be in
the public interest that the consent of
the City of Cleveland is given to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio (“the State”) to construct the following improvement
under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the State: repairing pavement along Prospect Avenue
between Ontario Street and East 22nd
Street, PID No. 98802 (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City proposes to
cooperate with the State in the cost of
the Improvement by assuming and
contributing the entire cost and
expense of the Improvement, less the
amount of federal funds allocated by
the Federal Highway Administration,
United States Department of Transportation. The City agrees to assume
one hundred percent (100%) of the
cost of preliminary engineering,
right-of-way and environmental documentation. Also, the City agrees to
assume and contribute 100% of the
cost of any items included in the construction contract at the request of
the City, which are determined by the
State not eligible or made necessary
by the Improvement. The share of the
cost of the City is estimated in the
amount of $240,000, but the estimated
amount is to be adjusted in order that
the City’s ultimate share of the
Improvement shall correspond with
the percentages of actual costs when
the actual costs are determined.
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
State necessary to complete the planning and construction of the Improvement, which agreements shall contain
terms and conditions that the Director
of Law determines shall best protect
the public interest.
Section 4. Utilities and Right-ofWay Statement. The City agrees to
acquire and/or make available to
ODOT, under current State and Federal regulations, all necessary right-ofway required for the Improvement.
The City also understands that rightof-way costs include eligible utility
costs. The City agrees to be responsible for all utility accommodation,
relocation, and reimbursement and
agrees that all such accommodations,
relocations,
and
reimbursements

1851

55
shall comply with the current provisions of 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT
Utilities Manual.
Section 5. Maintenance. Upon completion of the Improvement, and
unless otherwise agreed, the City
shall: (1) provide adequate maintenance for the Improvement under all
applicable state and federal laws,
including, but not limited to, 23 USC
116; (2) provide ample financial provisions, as necessary, for the maintenance of the Improvement; (3) maintain the right-of-way, keeping it free
of obstructions; and (4) hold said
right-of-way inviolate for public highway purposes.
Section 6. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
contracts with ODOT pre-qualified
consultants for the preliminary engineering phase of the Improvement
and to enter into contracts with the
Director of Transportation necessary
to complete the above described project. Upon the request of ODOT, the
Director of Capital Projects is also
authorized to assign all rights, title,
and interests of the City to ODOT arising from any agreement with its consultant in order to allow ODOT to
direct additional or corrective work,
recover damages due to errors or
omissions, and to exercise all other
contractual rights and remedies
afforded by law or equity.
Section 7. That the City agrees that
if Federal Funds are used to pay the
cost of any consultant contract, the
City shall comply with 23 CFR 172 in
the selection of its consultant and the
administration of the consultant contract. Further, the City agrees to
incorporate ODOT’s “Specifications
for Consulting Services” as a contract
document in all of its consultant contracts. The City agrees to require, as a
scope of services clause, that all plans
prepared by the consultant must conform to ODOT’s current design standards and that the consultant shall be
responsible for ongoing consultant
involvement during the construction
phase of the Improvement. The City
agrees to include a completion schedule acceptable to ODOT and to assist
ODOT in rating the consultant’s performance through ODOT’s Consultant
Evaluation System.
Section
8.
That
this
Council
requests the State to proceed with the
Improvement.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
any agreements necessary to implement the improvement.
Section 10. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to transmit to the State three (3) certified
copies of this ordinance immediately
on its taking effect, and it shall
become the basis for proceeding with
the Improvement.
Section 11. That this Council authorizes payment to the State of the
City’s share of the Improvement from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF
534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, and
20 SF 563, and any all funds approved
by the Director of Finance, including
future bond funds if issued for this
purpose, Request No. RQS 0103, RL
2014-134.
Section 12. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect

56
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

Ord. No. 1444-14.
By Council Members Brady, Zone,
Sweeney, K. Johnson and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for repairing pavement
along a portion of West 117th Street;
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to enter into any relative
agreements; and causing payment of
the City’s share to the State for the
cost of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be in
the public interest that the consent of
the City of Cleveland is given to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio (“the State”) to construct the following improvement
under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the State: repairing pavement along West 117th Street
between Bellaire Road and Clifton
Boulevard, PID No. 98854 (the
“Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City proposes to
cooperate with the State in the cost of
the Improvement by assuming and
contributing the entire cost and
expense of the Improvement, less the
amount of federal funds allocated by
the Federal Highway Administration,
United States Department of Transportation. The City agrees to assume
one hundred percent (100%) of the
cost of preliminary engineering,
right-of-way and environmental documentation. Also, the City agrees to
assume and contribute 100% of the
cost of any items included in the construction contract at the request of
the City, which are determined by the
State not eligible or made necessary
by the Improvement. The share of the
cost of the City is estimated in the
amount of $144,000, but the estimated
amount is to be adjusted in order that
the City’s ultimate share of the
Improvement shall correspond with
the percentages of actual costs when
the actual costs are determined.
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
State necessary to complete the planning and construction of the Improvement, which agreements shall contain
terms and conditions that the Director
of Law determines shall best protect
the public interest.
Section 4. Utilities and Right-ofWay Statement. The City agrees to
acquire and/or make available to
ODOT, under current State and Federal regulations, all necessary right-ofway required for the Improvement.
The City also understands that rightof-way costs include eligible utility
costs. The City agrees to be responsible for all utility accommodation,
relocation, and reimbursement and
agrees that all such accommodations,
relocations,
and
reimbursements
shall comply with the current provisions of 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT
Utilities Manual.

The City Record
Section 5. Maintenance. Upon completion of the Improvement, and
unless otherwise agreed, the City
shall: (1) provide adequate maintenance for the Improvement under all
applicable state and federal laws,
including, but not limited to, 23 USC
116; (2) provide ample financial provisions, as necessary, for the maintenance of the Improvement; (3) maintain the right-of-way, keeping it free
of obstructions; and (4) hold said
right-of-way inviolate for public highway purposes.
Section 6. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
contracts with ODOT pre-qualified
consultants for the preliminary engineering phase of the Improvement
and to enter into contracts with the
Director of Transportation necessary
to complete the above described project. Upon the request of ODOT, the
Director of Capital Projects is also
authorized to assign all rights, title,
and interests of the City to ODOT arising from any agreement with its consultant in order to allow ODOT to
direct additional or corrective work,
recover damages due to errors or
omissions, and to exercise all other
contractual rights and remedies
afforded by law or equity.
Section 7. That the City agrees that
if Federal Funds are used to pay the
cost of any consultant contract, the
City shall comply with 23 CFR 172 in
the selection of its consultant and the
administration of the consultant contract. Further, the City agrees to
incorporate ODOT’s “Specifications
for Consulting Services” as a contract
document in all of its consultant contracts. The City agrees to require, as a
scope of services clause, that all plans
prepared by the consultant must conform to ODOT’s current design standards and that the consultant shall be
responsible for ongoing consultant
involvement during the construction
phase of the Improvement. The City
agrees to include a completion schedule acceptable to ODOT and to assist
ODOT in rating the consultant’s performance through ODOT’s Consultant
Evaluation System.
Section
8.
That
this
Council
requests the State to proceed with the
Improvement.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
any agreements necessary to implement the improvement.
Section 10. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to transmit to the State three (3) certified
copies of this ordinance immediately
on its taking effect, and it shall
become the basis for proceeding with
the Improvement.
Section 11. That this Council authorizes payment to the State of the
City’s share of the Improvement from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF
534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, and
20 SF 563, and any all funds approved
by the Director of Finance, including
future bond funds if issued for this
purpose, Request No. RQS 0103, RL
2014-139.
Section 12. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

1852

December 10, 2014
Ord. No. 1445-14.
By Council Members Brady, Zone,
K. Johnson and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for repairing pavement
along a portion of West Boulevard;
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to enter into any relative
agreements; and causing payment of
the City’s share to the State for the
cost of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be in
the public interest that the consent of
the City of Cleveland is given to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio (“the State”) to construct the following improvement
under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the State: repairing pavement along West Boulevard
between West 105th Street and Madison Avenue, PID No. 98801 (the
“Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City proposes to
cooperate with the State in the cost of
the Improvement by assuming and
contributing the entire cost and
expense of the Improvement, less the
amount of federal funds allocated by
the Federal Highway Administration,
United States Department of Transportation. The City agrees to assume
one hundred percent (100%) of the
cost of preliminary engineering,
right-of-way and environmental documentation. Also, the City agrees to
assume and contribute 100% of the
cost of any items included in the construction contract at the request of
the City, which are determined by the
State not eligible or made necessary
by the Improvement. The share of the
cost of the City is estimated in the
amount of $500,000, but the estimated
amount is to be adjusted in order that
the City’s ultimate share of the
Improvement shall correspond with
the percentages of actual costs when
the actual costs are determined.
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
State necessary to complete the planning and construction of the Improvement, which agreements shall contain
terms and conditions that the Director
of Law determines shall best protect
the public interest.
Section 4. Utilities and Right-ofWay Statement. The City agrees to
acquire and/or make available to
ODOT, under current State and Federal regulations, all necessary right-ofway required for the Improvement.
The City also understands that rightof-way costs include eligible utility
costs. The City agrees to be responsible for all utility accommodation,
relocation, and reimbursement and
agrees that all such accommodations,
relocations,
and
reimbursements
shall comply with the current provisions of 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT
Utilities Manual.
Section 5. Maintenance. Upon completion of the Improvement, and
unless otherwise agreed, the City
shall: (1) provide adequate maintenance for the Improvement under all
applicable state and federal laws,
including, but not limited to, 23 USC
116; (2) provide ample financial provisions, as necessary, for the maintenance of the Improvement; (3) maintain the right-of-way, keeping it free

December 10, 2014
of obstructions; and (4) hold said
right-of-way inviolate for public highway purposes.
Section 6. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
contracts with ODOT pre-qualified
consultants for the preliminary engineering phase of the Improvement
and to enter into contracts with the
Director of Transportation necessary
to complete the above described project. Upon the request of ODOT, the
Director of Capital Projects is also
authorized to assign all rights, title,
and interests of the City to ODOT arising from any agreement with its consultant in order to allow ODOT to
direct additional or corrective work,
recover damages due to errors or
omissions, and to exercise all other
contractual rights and remedies
afforded by law or equity.
Section 7. That the City agrees that
if Federal Funds are used to pay the
cost of any consultant contract, the
City shall comply with 23 CFR 172 in
the selection of its consultant and the
administration of the consultant contract. Further, the City agrees to
incorporate ODOT’s “Specifications
for Consulting Services” as a contract
document in all of its consultant contracts. The City agrees to require, as a
scope of services clause, that all plans
prepared by the consultant must conform to ODOT’s current design standards and that the consultant shall be
responsible for ongoing consultant
involvement during the construction
phase of the Improvement. The City
agrees to include a completion schedule acceptable to ODOT and to assist
ODOT in rating the consultant’s performance through ODOT’s Consultant
Evaluation System.
Section
8.
That
this
Council
requests the State to proceed with the
Improvement.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
any agreements necessary to implement the improvement.
Section 10. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to transmit to the State three (3) certified
copies of this ordinance immediately
on its taking effect, and it shall
become the basis for proceeding with
the Improvement.
Section 11. That this Council authorizes payment to the State of the
City’s share of the Improvement from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF
534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, and
20 SF 563, and any all funds approved
by the Director of Finance, including
future bond funds if issued for this
purpose, Request No. RQS 0103, RL
2014-131.
Section 12. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

Ord. No. 1469-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the continuation of Section 343.23
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance 1648-12, passed November 26,

The City Record
2012, relating to drive-through lanes
in pedestrian retail overlay districts
for a period of two years from the
effective date of this ordinance.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
1648-12, passed November 26, 2012, this
Council amended Codified Ordinances
Section 343.23, relating to drivethrough lanes in pedestrian retail
overlay districts; and
Whereas, pursuant to section 3 of
Ordinance 1648-12, this Council must
by ordinance, expressly authorize the
continuation Section 343.23 as amended by Ordinance 1648-12 before
December 3, 2014, or a different Section 343.23 shall be enacted in its
place; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
authorize the continuation of Section
343.23, as amended by Ordinance 164812, passed November 26, 2012 for a
period of two years from the effective
date of this ordinance; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
authorizes the continuation of Section
343.23 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance 1648-12, passed November
26, 2012, relating to drive-through
lanes in pedestrian retail overlay districts for a period of two years from
the effective date of this ordinance.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 1, 2014.

Ord. No. 1507-14.
By Council Members Keane, Kelley
and Brancatelli
(by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the second and sixth whereas clauses,
and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No.
561-14, passed June 2, 2014, relating to
lease agreements with Cumberland
TCC, LLC, for property commonly
known as the Harbor West Docks,
and three sites at North Coast Harbor
for future development.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the second and sixth
whereas clauses, and Sections 1 and 2
of Ordinance No. 561-14, passed June 2,
2014, are amended to read as follows:
WHEREAS, Cumberland TCC, LLC,
a Delaware limited liability company
owned by CUMBERLAND LAKEFRONT, LLC, an Ohio limited liability
company (“Cumberland”) and TC NE
METRO DEVELOPMENT, INC., a
Delaware corporation or another
wholly owned subsidiary of TRAMMELL CROW COMPANY, LLC, a
Delaware limited liability company
(“TCC”, and together with the Cumberland, “Developer”) would like to
enter into a Multi-Phased Option to

1853

57
Lease Agreement (“Option Agreement”) with the City in order for
Developer to market the Project Site
for future development; and
Whereas, Developer agrees to
undertake the following development
at the Project Site (“Development
Objectives”) according to the following Phases:
Phase 1:
Area A (Voinovich Parking Lot,
approximately 1 acre)
Development may include retail
uses such as a restaurant, public
restrooms, and facilities supporting
waterfront attractions.
Building
height may be one or two stories.
Area B (Skate Park, approximately 1/2 acre)
Development may include restaurants, and general retail. Building
height may be two or three stories.
Area C (Parcel between Rock and
Roll Hall of Fame Museum and Great
Lakes Science Center, approximately
1 acre)
Development may include restaurants, general retail, a hotel, and/or
facilities supporting Great Lakes Science Center and Rock and Roll Hall
of Fame.
Phase 2:
Area D (Dock 32, approximately 6
acres)
Development may include at least
200 residential units, at least 60,000
square feet of office space, parking,
hotels, restaurants, and general
retail. Building height may be six stories.
Phase 3:
Area E (Dock 30, approximately 6
acres)
Development may include at least
350 residential units, office, general
retail, and parking. Building may be
eight stories.
Phase 4:
Area F (Dock 28B, approximately 6
acres)
Development may include at least
350 residential units, office, general
retail, and parking. Building height
may be ten stories; and;
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 (Purchases and Supplies) and 183 (Real Estate Transactions) of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into the Option Agreement and related Lease Agreements with Developer
for the Project Site as illustrated by
the Phase map with lease area and
street and park borderlines subject to
slight variations at the discretion of
the Developer and approval of the
City Planning Commission, and
placed in File No. 561-14-D.
Section 2. That following the date
the Option Agreement is fully executed or June 15, 2015, whichever is earlier (“Effective Date“), the Developer
shall have the right to exercise its
option to lease each Phase of the Project pursuant to the Option Agreement as follows:
Phase I: Developer shall have the
option to lease Sites A-D for a period
of one (1) year following the Effective Date.
Phase II: Developer shall have the
option to lease Site D for a period of
two (2) years following the Effective
Date.

58
Phase III: Developer shall have the
option to lease Site E for a period of
three (3) years following the Effective Date.
Phase IV: Developer shall have the
option to lease Site F for a period of
four (4) years following the Effective
Date.
In the event the Developer is diligently working toward completion of
the development of a Phase, then the
date for exercise of the option to lease
for that Phase of the Project may be
extended for an additional period of
one (1) year, exercisable by the Director of Port Control, with prior notification to the President of City Council.
Section 2. That the second and sixth
whereas clauses, and Sections 1 and 2
of Ordinance No. 561-14, passed June 2,
2014, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

Ord. No. 1509-14.
By Council Members Keane, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 3 of Ordinance No. 425-14,
passed April 14, 2014, relating to an
Enterprise Zone Agreement with
Oatey Company, or its designee, to
provide for a tax abatement for certain tangible real property improvements needed to construct a new
headquarters in the Emerald Corporate Park; and to authorize the Director of Economic Development to enter
into an amendment to Contract No.
50034, as amended, with Emerald
Research Park, Ltd., to change certain terms and conditions of the
agreement.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 42514, passed April 14, 2014, this Council
authorized the Director of Economic
Development to enter into an amendment to Contract No. 50034, as amended, with Emerald Research Park, Ltd.
(“Emerald”) to forgive payment of
$30,000 per acre by Emerald to the
City, upon the sale of 4.5 acres to
Oatey Company, or its designee, within Emerald Park, for a total of
$135,000; and
Whereas, Oatey Company has negotiated the purchase of an additional
3.05 acres with Emerald Research
Park, LTD that will be used to construct a larger facility; and
Whereas, a contract amendment is
necessary in order to include the additional 3.05 acres in the payment forgiveness, for a total of $91,500; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 3 of Ordinance No. 425-14, passed April 14, 2014,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 3. That the terms of the tax
abatement shall be in accordance

The City Record
with the terms in the Summary contained in File No. 425-14-B.
These
terms shall not be amended, nor shall
the tax abatement be assignable or
transferable to any entity, without
the prior legislative authorization by
Cleveland City Council.
Section 2. That existing Section 3 of
Ordinance No. 425-14, passed April 14,
2014, is repealed.
Section 3. The Director of Economic
Development is authorized to enter
into an amendment to Contract No.
50034 with Emerald Research Park,
Ltd. (“Emerald”) to increase the
amount of acreage that payment is
being forgiven on by 3.05 acres for a
total of 7.55 acres, for a total of
$226,500. All other terms and conditions of the agreement, as amended,
shall remain the same.
Section 4. That the contract amendment shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

Ord. No. 1516-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more contracts with
Cleveland Housing Network for professional services necessary to provide administration and other related
services for the Division of Water’s
discount affordability program, for a
period of one year, with one one-year
option to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Cleveland
Housing Network for professional
services necessary to provide administration and other related services
for the Division of Water’s discount
affordability program on the basis of
its proposal received on September 10,
2014, in the total sum of $182,887, for
the Department of Public Utilities, for
a period of one year, with one oneyear option to renew, exercisable by
the Director of Public Utilities. The
contract or contracts shall be paid
from Fund No. 52 SF 001, Request No.
RQS 2002, RL 2014-105.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

1854

December 10, 2014
Ord. No. 1520-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf
of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to
enter into contract with the Cuyahoga
County Public Defender Commission
for legal services necessary to defend
indigents charged with violation of
ordinances of the City of Cleveland
that may result in incarceration, for
the Cleveland Municipal Court for a
period of one year, with one option to
renew for an additional one-year period, exercisable by the Director of
Finance.
Whereas, in Argersinger v. Hamlin
and Scott v. Illinois, the United States
Supreme Court held that no indigent
criminal defendant may be sentenced
to a term of imprisonment unless he
or she has been afforded the right to
assistance of counsel in their defense;
and
Whereas, the Cleveland Municipal
Court, through the City of Cleveland,
is obligated to provide counsel for an
indigent person charged with violation of City ordinances with the possibility of a sentence including incarceration; and
Whereas, under Section 120.14 of
the Revised Code, a county public
defender commission may contract
with any municipal corporation within the County served by the county
public defender to provide legal representation on behalf of the municipal corporation; and
Whereas, the Cleveland Municipal
Court, the district of which encompasses Bratenahl and the City of
Cleveland, recommends that the
Cuyahoga County Public Defender
Commission should provide indigent
defense; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
enter into contract with the Cuyahoga
County Public Defender Commission
for legal services necessary to defend
indigents charged with violation of
ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
provided the violation may result in
incarceration, for a period of one year
beginning January 1, 2015, at an estimated cost of $1,922,185, with one
option for an additional consecutive
one-year period, exercisable by the
Director of Finance, payable from
funds appropriated in budget year
2015 for this purpose.
Section 2. That two percent (2%) of
any payment received by the City
and/or Cleveland Municipal Court
from the financing of defense counsel
for indigent persons shall be utilized
by participants in a court exchange
program between Cleveland Municipal Court and the Cleveland Municipal School District.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

December 10, 2014
Ord. No. 1521-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of repairing or replacing roofs and appurtenances, including but not limited to roofing systems;
authorizing the Director of Public
Utilities to enter into one or more public improvement by requirement contracts for the making of the improvement; and authorizing the purchase
by one or more requirement contracts
of maintaining, testing, evaluating,
repairing or replacing roofs and
appurtenances, including but not limited to roofing systems, and repairing
water damage to structures and structure components caused by leaky
roofs, for the Department of Public
Utilities, for a period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of repairing or
replacing roofs and appurtenances,
including but not limited to roofing
systems, for the Divisions of Water,
Water Pollution Control, Cleveland
Public Power, and the Office of Radio
Communications, Department of Public Utilities, by one or more public
improvement by requirement contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders on a unit basis
for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for a period
of two years for the making of the
above public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding on a unit
basis for the improvement for a period not to exceed the specified term,
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Divisions of Water,
Water Pollution Control, Cleveland
Public Power, and the Office of Radio
Communications, Department of Public Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is
made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for a period
of two years of the necessary items of
maintaining, testing, and evaluating

The City Record
roofs, roofing systems, and appurtenances; repairing water damage to
structures and structure components
caused by leaky roofs; and for repairing or replacing roofs and appurtenances, including but not limited to
roofing systems, which are not covered under the public improvement
contract authorized above, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Department of Public Utilities.
Bids shall be taken in a manner that
permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a
period less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 5. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall not exceed $1.1
million dollars and shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the proceeds of the sale of future
bonds issued for this purpose and
shall also be charged against the
proper appropriation accounts and
the Director of Finance shall certify
the amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a delivery
order against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL RQN 2002, RL 2014-51)
Section 6. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Utilities may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

Ord. No. 1557-14.
By Council Member Conwell and J.
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance designating East 112th Street between Primrose Avenue and Superior Avenue
with a secondary and honorary designation of “Steve Harvey Way”.
Whereas, the citizens of Cleveland
want to recognize Steve Harvey with
a street sign designation of “Steve
Harvey Way”; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That East 112th Street
between Primrose Avenue and Superior Avenue is designated with a

1855

59
secondary and honorary designation
of “Steve Harvey Way”.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

Ord. No. 1596-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for The Santa Shuffle on
December 13, 2014, sponsored by Hermes Sports and Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
The Santa Shuffle on December 13,
2014, start: Starkweather & Scranton;
Starkweather east to Professor; Professor north to Fairfield; Fairfield
west to West 11th and (finish line);
provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may
be closed as determined by the Chief
of Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit
shall further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 1, 2014.
Effective December 3, 2014.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, December 8, 2014
9:00 a.m.
Committee of the Whole: Present:
Kelley, Chair; Brady, Brancatelli,
Cimperman,
Cleveland,
Conwell,
Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson,
Keane,
Mitchell,
Polensek,
Pruitt,
Reed,
Zone.
Authorized
Absence: Sweeney.
Wednesday, December 10, 2014
10:00 a.m.
Safety Committee: Present: Zone,
Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Dow, Keane, Polensek. Authorized Absence: K. Johnson.

The City Record

60

December 10, 2014

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

9-1-1 Service
Amend Sections 1 & 2 of Ord. No. 298-14 — Transfer the responsibility of answering cellular
9-1-1 calls made within the City of Cleveland from the County to the City
(O 1621-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1824

Agreements
Amend Sections 1 & 2 of Ord. No. 298-14 — Transfer the responsibility of answering cellular
9-1-1 calls made within the City of Cleveland from the County to the City
(O 1621-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Communication and Public Relations Consulting Services — Mita Marketing, LLC (O 1598-14) .
Computer Technology Projects — Solar Systems Networking Inc. (O 1599-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting services for utility -related matters — The Project Group (O 1602-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Developmental Disabilities Social Services Support Program — L’Arche Cleveland —
Community Development (Ward 16 NEF) (O 1633-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — tri-party agreement — Cuyahoga Co. and The Superlative Group, an
Ohio corporation — naming rights — Medical Mart Convention Center, Mall B & C
(O 1573-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financial Consulting and Auditing Services — Guy Gadomski, CPA (O 1601-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnny Kilbane Sculpture Project — Irish American Archives Society, Inc. — Works
Department (Ward(s) 15, 13, 16 and 17) (O 1635-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Law enforcement — related scientific testing services — Cuyahoga County Medical
Examiner’s — Regional Forensic Science Laboratory — Safety Department (O 1622-14) . . .
NuCLEus redevelopment project — Gateway Huron, LLC — Tax Increment Financing
Agreement — Economic Development Department (O 1570-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Operation and Sustainability Plan implementation — Cobalt Group, Inc. (O 1597-14) . . . . . . . . . .
Playhouse Square Foundation — forgivable loan agreement — Ohio Theater Euclid Ave., 1501
(Ward 03) (O 1519-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project NuCLEus Building A and Building B (VPI) — contracts — Gateway Huron, LLC, —
Economic Development Department (O 1571-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tenant Advocacy and Rental Information Center Program — Cleveland Tenants
Organization — Community Development (Ward 16 NEF) (O 1632-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Youth Initiative Program — educational sessions on bicycle safety, healthy eating,
exercise and bicycle maintenance — Greater Cleveland Sports Commission — Community
Development (Ward 16 NEF) (O 1634-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vacant and Abandoned Property Action Council (VAPAC), demolition
bond, reforestation, demolition funding, rehabilitation, and code enforcement —
Western Reserve Land Conservancy d/b/a Thriving Communities Institute
(O 1600-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1824
1835
1835
1835

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1825

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1825
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1824
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1825

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1825

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835

AIDS
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2015-2017 — Academy of Educational Development —
Grants — Ohio Department of Health (O 1345-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1843

Animals
Animal Care and Control Division — amend Sections 135.16, 135.17, 135.18, 135.180, 603.02,
603.03, 603.031, 603.04, 603.072, 603.09, 603A.04, 603A.05, 603A.06, 603A.07,
603A.10, 603A.13, 603A.16, 604.06 and 604.99 (O 1572-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833

Appreciation
Sweeney, Councilman Martin J. (R 1658-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
Wheeler, Cosandra (R 1659-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

Appropriations
Appropriations — additional — $ 200,000 — Enterprise Funds — Sinking Fund Commission —
Finance Department (O 1594-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834
Appropriations — Temporary — Year 2015 — Finance Department (O 1595-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Brinsmade Avenue, 7902 (Ward 3) — Donald & Cynthia Grimes, owners — appeal adopted on
12/3/14 (Doc. A-182-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1839
Carolina Road, 11421 (Ward 9) — Anderson Russell, owner — appeal resolved on
12/3/14 (Doc. A-190-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1838

1856

December 10, 2014

The City Record

East 121st Street, 2639 (Ward 6) — Khadija Kelley, owner — appeal adopted on
12/3/14 (Doc. A-184-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 47th Street, 1785 (Ward 7) — Anna Chambers, owner — appeal resolved on 12/3/14
(Doc. A-189-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 54th Street, 3628 (Ward 12) — Wanda Maultsby, owner — appeal adopted on
12/3/14 (Doc. A-181-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gay Avenue, 12702 (Ward 4) — Tamekia Madden, owner — appeal resolved on
12/3/14 (Doc. A-187-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hamilton Avenue, 1277 (Ward 3) — EV Bishoff, owner — appeal adopted on 12/3/14
(Doc. A-180-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hamlen Avenue, 11619 (Ward 6) — Sarah Gardner, owner — appeal resolved on 12/3/14
(Doc. A-186-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hamlen Avenue, 11701 (Ward 6) — Hilbert & Patricia Bridges, owners — appeal adopted on
12/3/14 (Doc. A-183-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard Avenue, 8200 (Ward 12) — WMW Management c/o William Sr. & Jr. M. Tetzlaf,
owners — appeal resolved on 12/3/14 (Doc. A-195-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mound Avenue, 5323, a.k.a. 3586 East 54th Street, Apt. 3 (Ward 12) — Gabriel Pardamean
c/o GMS Services, owner — appeal resolved on 12/3/14 (Doc. A-191-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Neville Avenue, 7260, a.k.a. 7275 Wentworth Avenue (Ward 14) — NDNMD, Inc., owner —
appeal resolved on 12/3/14 (Doc. A-226-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Neville Avenue, 7260-7275 Wentworth Avenue (Ward 14) — NDNMD, Inc., owner — appeal
resolved on 12/3/14 (Doc. A-173-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Notre Dame Avenue, 11012 (Ward 6) — Tian Jin LLC, owner — extension of time granted on
12/3/14 (Doc. A-158-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ontario Street, 2401 (Ward 3) — Gateway Economic Development Corporation, owner — appeal
resolved on 12/3/14 (Doc. A-222-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Orleans Avenue, 9520 (Ward 6) — Lei Wei, owner — appeal resolved on 12/3/14 (Doc. A-219-14)
Scranton Road, 2490 (Ward 3) — Eva Caraballo, owner — appeal resolved on 12/3/14
(Doc. A-196-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Viaduct, 2220 (Ward 3) — Left Side Developments, LLC, owner — appeal adopted
on 12/3/14 (Doc. A-188-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 112th Street, 3098 (Ward 11) — Matthew Martinez, owner — appeal resolved on 12/3/14
(Doc. A-215-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 67th Street, 2126 (Ward 15) — Dana S. Paterson, owner — appeal adopted on 12/3/14
(Doc. A-185-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1839
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1838
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1839
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1838
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1839
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1838
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1839
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1838
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1838
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1839
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1838
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1839
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1839
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1839
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1838
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1839
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1839
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1839

Board of Control — Finance Department
Wireless cellular services, Part 1, all items, Part 2, items 1-2, 4-11, 11a-m, Part 3,
all items, Part 4, all items, and Part 5, all items — per Ord. 305-14 to AT &
T Mobility National Accounts LLC — Division of Information Technology and Services
(BOC Res. 543-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835
Wireless cellular services, Part 2, item 3 — per Ord. 305-14 — all bids rejected —
Division of Information Technology and Services (BOC Res. 544-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835

Board of Control — Information Technology and Services Division
Wireless cellular services, Part 1, all items, Part 2, items 1-2, 4-11, 11a-m, Part 3, all items,
Part 4, all items, and Part 5, all items — per Ord. 305-14 to AT & T Mobility National
Accounts LLC — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 543-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835
Wireless cellular services, Part 2, item 3 — per Ord. 305-14 — all bids rejected — Dept.
of Finance (BOC Res. 544-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835

Board of Control — Police Division
Body Worn Camera System implementation — per Ord. 1128-14 to Taser International, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 546-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1836

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Body Worn Camera System implementation — per Ord. 1128-14 to Taser International, Inc. —
Division of Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 546-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1836

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Body Worn Camera System implementation — per Ord. 1128-14 to Taser International, Inc. —
Division of Police (BOC Res. 546-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1836

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Labor and materials necessary to repair, replace or maintain various types of
valves, actuators and appurtenances — per Ord. 850-14 — all bids rejected — Division
of Water (BOC Res. 545-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835

1857

The City Record

62

December 10, 2014

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Labor and materials necessary to repair, replace or maintain various types of
valves, actuators and appurtenances — per Ord. 850-14 — all bids rejected — Division
of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 545-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835
Wireless cellular services, Part 1, all items, Part 2, items 1-2, 4-11, 11a-m, Part 3,
all items, Part 4, all items, and Part 5, all items — per Ord. 305-14 to AT &
T Mobility National Accounts LLC — Division of Information Technology and Services,
Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 543-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835
Wireless cellular services, Part 2, item 3 — per Ord. 305-14 — all bids rejected —
Division of Information Technology and Services, Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 544-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835

Board of Control — Water Division
Labor and materials necessary to repair, replace or maintain various types of
valves, actuators and appurtenances — per Ord. 850-14 — all bids rejected — Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 545-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835

Board of Education
Urging Ohio State Board of Education to allow more community input before eliminate the
“5 of 8” rule (R 1604-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1841

Board of Elections
Certificate of Result — Issue 35 — November 4, 2014 election (F 1663-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Bridge Avenue, 3000 (Ward 3) — WSCH, LLC, owner — appeal granted and adopted on 12/8/14
(Cal. 14-212) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadview Road, 4770 (Ward 13) — Julie Adams House Inc., owner — appeal postponed
to 12/29/14 on 12/8/14 (Cal. 14-225) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadview Road, 4770 (Ward 13) — Julie Adams House, owner — appeal postponed to 12/29/14
on 12/8/14 (Cal. 14-217) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buckeye Road, 12915 (Ward 6) — Buckeye-FDBTS, LLC, owner — appeal rescheduled to
12/22/14 on 12/8/14 (Cal. 14-211) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Company, LLC, Wolley Taxi — appeal dismissed on 12/8/14 (Cal. 14-218) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 79th Street, 2341 (Ward 7) — Fairfax Development Organization, owner, and Cleveland
Botanical Garden, lessee — appeal withdrawn on 12/8/14 (Cal. 14-184) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 79th Street, 2345 (Ward 7) — Fairfax Development Organization, owner, and Cleveland
Botanical Garden, lessee — appeal withdrawn on 12/8/14 (Cal. 14-185) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 79th Street, 2347 (Ward 7) — Fairfax Development Organization, owner, and Cleveland
Botanical Garden, lessee — appeal withdrawn on 12/8/14 (Cal. 14-186) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 79th Street, 2353 (Ward 7) — Fairfax Development Organization, owner, and Cleveland
Botanical Garden, lessee — appeal withdrawn on 12/8/14 (Cal. 14-187) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jay Avenue, 2925 (Ward 3) — Patrick Sullivan, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 12/8/14 (Cal. 14-209) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Macauley Road, 15402 (Ward 8) — Michael Dubson, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
12/8/14 (Cal. 14-204) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marquardt Avenue, 602 (Ward 3) — Cleveland Bricks, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 12/8/14 (Cal. 14-148) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marquardt Avenue, 604 (Ward 3) — Cleveland Bricks, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 12/8/14 (Cal. 14-149) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marquardt Avenue, 606 (Ward 3) — Cleveland Bricks, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 12/8/14 (Cal. 14-150) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marquardt Avenue, 608 (Ward 3) — Cleveland Bricks, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 12/8/14 (Cal. 14-151) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 143rd Street, 4218 (Ward ) — Mr. Hoover, owner — appeal heard on 12/8/14 (Cal. 14-232). .
West 25th Street (Unit 3), 1810 (Ward 3) — Tom Gillespie, owner — appeal granted
and adopted on 12/8/14 (Cal. 14-210). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 48th Street, 1444 (Ward 3) — Scott Francis, owner — appeal heard on 12/8/14
(Cal. 14-216) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1837
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1837
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1837
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1837
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1837
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1837
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1837
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1837
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1837
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1837
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1837
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1837
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1837
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1837
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1837
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1837
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1837
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1837

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Biddulph Avenue, 5100 (Ward 13) — Cleveland Board of Education (Rhodes High
School), owner — appeal to be heard on 12/29/14 (Cal. 14-242) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, 5901 (Ward 15) — Jon B. Post, owner — appeal to be heard on 12/29/14
(Cal. 14-240) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 5027 (Ward 3) — Enrique Maldonado, owner — appeal to be heard on 12/29/14
(Cal. 14-239) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 2173 (Ward 3) — Laura Firman, owner — appeal to be heard on 12/29/14
(Cal. 14-246) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1858

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1836
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1836
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1836
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1836

December 10, 2014

The City Record

63

Bonds
Bridges and Roadways Improvement Bonds, Series 2015 — $ 42,400,000 — Finance Department
(O 1630-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic and Community Development Revenue Bonds, Series 2015 — $ 16,300,000 — Finance
Department (O 1627-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General Obligation Refunding Bonds — Finance Department (O 1591-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds, Series 2015 — $ 11,000,000 — Finance
Department (O 1629-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds, Series 2015 — $34,000,000 — Finance Department
(O 1628-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Refunding Bonds — 2015 Subordinate Lien Income Tax — Finance Department (O 1592-14) . . . .
Residential and neighborhood development, Series 2015 — $6,900,000 — Finance Department
(O 1626-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1817
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1804
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1813
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1809
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

Bridges
Amend Ord. 1325-12 — East 79th St. Bridge improvements — consent and cause payment —
Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 06) (O 1552-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833
Rehabilitation MLK Boulevard Bridge project No. 5:029M — consent — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 09) (O 1514-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
Rehabilitation MLK Boulevard Bridge project No. 5:055M — consent — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 09) (O 1515-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

Building And Housing Department
Hookah lounges and vapor lounges — amend Section 343.11- enact Section 347.121 (O 1396-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1830

Burke Lakefront Airport
General non-capital maintenance and repairs — amend Sections 1,2,3 and 5 of Ord. 456-12 —
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division (O 1446-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1830
Office space — flight training — T & G Flying Club, Inc. — lease agreement (O 1465-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
Office space (Suite 220) — lease agreement — BoxCast, LLC — Port Control Department
(O 1461-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831

Camp George L. Forbes
Summer Food Service Program, 2015 — contracts for food, food products, beverages,
condiments — Grants — Ohio Department of Education — Recreation Division —
Works Department (O 1625-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

Capital Projects
Amend Ord. 1325-12 — East 79th St. Bridge improvements — consent and cause payment —
Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 06) (O 1552-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Downtown area (CP01, CP12, CP13, CP14) — encroach into right-of-way — 4 way-finding signs
and electric duct banks — Positively Cleveland (Ward 03) (O 1351-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 112th St. (Primrose Ave. and Superior Ave.) — secondary and honorary designation of
Steve Harvey Way — City Planning Commission (Ward 09) (O 1557-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 117th St. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 06)
(R 1526-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Infrastructure capital improvements — apply — District One Public Works Integrating
Committee — rehabilitation of U.S. Route 42, Scranton Road/Carter Road, Clark
Avenue, and East 152nd Street (O 1348-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Logan Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward
07) (R 1624-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Logan Court N.E. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 07) (O 1623-14) . . . . . .
Metroparks — Lake Link Trail overhead pedestrian bridge Scranton Rd. (Ward 03) (O 1631-14) .
North Coast Harbor Pedestrian Bridge construction — amend Ord. 1690-12 — consent and cause
payment — Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 03) (O 1447-14) . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Broadview Rd. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 12) (O 1439-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Community College Ave. — consent and cause payment — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 05) (O 1440-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on East Blvd. and Ford Dr. — consent and cause payment — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 09) (O 1441-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Harvard Ave. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 01) (O 1442-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Prospect Ave. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 03) (O 1443-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on West 117th St. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 11) (O 1444-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on West Blvd. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 11) (O 1445-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1859

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1830
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1844
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1823
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1824
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1821
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1849
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1852
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1852

The City Record

64

Rehabilitation MLK Boulevard Bridge project No. 5:029M — consent — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 09) (O 1514-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehabilitation MLK Boulevard Bridge project No. 5:055M — consent — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 09) (O 1515-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Starkweather Ave., 1109 — encroach into right-of-way — three security / surveillance
cameras and electrical connection — Prosperity Social Club, Inc. — City
Planning Commission — CPP (Ward 03) (O 1517-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Santa Shuffle — permit — Dec. 13 — Hermes Sports and Events (Ward 03) (O 1596-14) . . .
Turney Rd. (Warner Rd. to the Cleveland south corporation line) — resurfacing — consent —
Cuyahoga County (Ward 02) (O 1349-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Various Capital Improvement Projects — Architectural and related services — professional
services contracts (O 1522-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Various Capital Improvement Projects — Engineering, testing, and related services —
Division of Engineering and Construction (O 1523-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Washington Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — new handicap-accessible ramp and stair —
Left Side Developments, LLC — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1246-14) . . . . . . .
West 74th St. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 15)
(R 1245-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

December 10, 2014
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1830
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835

City Council
Communication and Public Relations Consulting Services — Mita Marketing, LLC (O 1598-14)
Computer Technology Projects — Solar Systems Networking Inc. (O 1599-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financial Consulting and Auditing Services — Guy Gadomski, CPA (O 1601-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Operation and Sustainability Plan implementation — Cobalt Group, Inc. (O 1597-14) . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1835
1835
1835
1834

City of Cleveland Bids
Exterior Facade and Ticketing Lobby Rehabilitation — Department of Port Control —
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — per Ord. 1588-09 — bid
due January 14, 2015 (advertised 12/10/2014 and 12/17/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
J.I.T. Office Supplies, Furniture, and Equipment — Department of Finance — per Ord.
1191-14 — bid due January 7, 2015 (advertised 12/3/2014 and 12/10/2014). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jefferson Avenue Green Infrastructure Improvements (Re-bid) — Department of Public
Works — Division of Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord. 727-13 — bid due
January 2, 2015 (advertised 12/10/2014 and 12/17/2014). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Landscape Maintenance at Various Public Utilities (Re-bid) — Department of Public
Utilities — per Ord. 863-13 — bid due January 9, 2015 (advertised 12/10/2014 and 12/17/2014)
Lorain Avenue Reconstruction West 150th Street to West 117th Street CUY-10-10.17 PID
84289 — Office of Capital Projects — Division of Engineering and Construction — per
Ord. 648-13 — bid due December 19, 2014 (advertised 11/26/2014 and 12/3/2014 and 12/10/2014) .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1840
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1840

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1840
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1840

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1840

City Planning Commission
East 112th St. (Primrose Ave. and Superior Ave.) — secondary and honorary designation of
Steve Harvey Way — Capital Projects Office (Ward 09) (O 1557-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 117th St. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 06)
(R 1526-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Logan Avenue Extension (from East 97th St. to East 101st St.) — dedication plat (Ward 07)
(F 1617-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Logan Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 07)
(R 1624-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Logan Court N.E. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 07) (O 1623-14) . . . . . . . .
Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) Districts (drive-thru lanes) — Section 343.23
(remove sunset) (O 1469-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Regional Visitor Destination Overlay District (RVD) — enact Section 343.24 (O 1646-14) . . . . .
Washington Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — new handicap-accessible ramp and stair —
Left Side Developments, LLC — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1246-14) . . . . . . . . . .
West 74th St. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 15) (R 1245-14)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1823
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1824
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1822
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1830
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835

Clerk of Council
Communication and Public Relations Consulting Services — Mita Marketing, LLC (O 1598-14)
Computer Technology Projects — Solar Systems Networking Inc. (O 1599-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting services for utility-related matters — The Project Group (O 1602-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Creation of the Flats East Bank Community Authority — Economic Development (O 1648-14) .
Financial Consulting and Auditing Services — Guy Gadomski, CPA (O 1601-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Operation and Sustainability Plan implementation — Cobalt Group, Inc. (O 1597-14) . . . . . . . . .
Vacant and Abandoned Property Action Council (VAPAC), demolition bond, reforestation,
demolition funding, rehabilitation, and code enforcement — Western Reserve Land
Conservancy d/b/a Thriving Communities Institute — agreement (O 1600-14) . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1835
1835
1835
1822
1835
1834

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (CHIA)
Exelis — contracts — squitter units (installation & maintenance) — Vehicle at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport (O 1558-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833

1860

December 10, 2014

The City Record

65

General non-capital maintenance and repairs — amend Sections 1,2,3 and 5 of Ord. 456-12 —
Burke Lakefront Airport Division (O 1446-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1830
Valet parking service and lease space — SP+, fka Standard Parking Corporation —
lease agreement (O 1464-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831

Cleveland Housing Network (CHN)
Discount affordability program — professional services — contracts — Utilities Department —
Water Division (O 1516-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1854

Cleveland Municipal Court
Cleveland Work Crew Program — community service placement for criminal defendants —
Court Community Service (O 1618-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1823
Legal services to defend indigents — Cuyahoga County Public Defender Commission —
Finance Department (O 1520-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1854

Cleveland Metropolitan School District
NuCLEus redevelopment project — Gateway Huron, LLC — Tax Increment Financing
Agreement — Economic Development Department (O 1570-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833

Cleveland Public Power
Cleveland Public Power tax remittances — FY 2015 and 2016 — General Fund — Finance
Department (O 1350-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1846
Roofs, roof systems and appurtenances — Water Division — Water Pollution Control Division
(O 1521-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
Starkweather Ave., 1109 — encroach into right-of-way — three security / surveillance
cameras and electrical connection — Prosperity Social Club, Inc. — Capital Projects
Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1517-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

Cleveland Tenants Organization
Tenant Advocacy and Rental Information Center Program — agreement — Community
Development (Ward 16 NEF) (O 1632-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1825

Codified Ordinances
Animal Care and Control Division — amend Sections 135.16, 135.17, 135.18, 135.180, 603.02,
603.03, 603.031, 603.04, 603.072, 603.09, 603A.04, 603A.05, 603A.06, 603A.07,
603A.10, 603A.13, 603A.16, 604.06 and 604.99 (O 1572-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Excessively Large Quantity of Waste Disposal — Civil Infractions — Amend Section 551.05,
551.111 and 551.991 (O 974-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hookah lounges and vapor lounges — amend Section 343.11- enact Section 347.121 — Building
and Housing Department (O 1396-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) Districts (drive-thru lanes) — Section 343.23
(remove sunset) — City Planning Commission (O 1469-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Regional Visitor Destination Overlay District (RVD) — enact Section 343.24 (O 1646-14) . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1841
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1830
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1822

Collective Bargaining Agreements
Municipal Foremen & Laborers Local 1099 (Non — Supervisory & Supervisory) — approve
Fact-Finder’s report — Section 26, 27, and 49 — amend Ord. 385-14 —
Finance Department — Human Resources Department (O 1577-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834
Teamsters, Local 507 — approve collective bargaining agreement — Section 9 — amend Ord.
385-14 — Finance Department — Human Resources Department (O 1555-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833

Communications
Certificate of Result — Issue 35 — November 4, 2014 election (F 1663-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Corsica Ave., 15617 — renovation of eight residential units — Emerald Development
& Economic Network, Inc. (EDEN) — Ohio Housing Finance Agency (Ward 08)
(F 1616-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Donation of 100 smoke detectors — The Home Depot at Steelyard Commons — Fire Division —
Safety Department (F 1649-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Resident Utilization Report — November 2014 — Bi-Monthly Report — Equal Opportunity
Office (F 1660-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799

Community Development
Developmental Disabilities Social Services Support Program — L’Arche Cleveland —
agreement (Ward 16 NEF) (O 1633-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1825
Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration or Lead Hazard Control Grant — Healthy Homes
Grant — U.S. Department of HUD — professional services for grant writing
services (O 1418-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848

1861

The City Record

66

December 10, 2014

Tenant Advocacy and Rental Information Center Program — Cleveland Tenants Organization —
agreement (Ward 16 NEF) (O 1632-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1825
Urban Youth Initiative Program — educational sessions on bicycle safety, healthy eating,
exercise and bicycle maintenance — Greater Cleveland Sports Commission — agreement
(Ward16 NEF) (O 1634-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1825

Condolences
Bennett, Robert T. (R 1665-14) . . . . . . . .
Boyd, William (R 1666-14) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dedek, George E. (R 1653-14) . . . . . . . . .
Drake, Katherine (R 1667-14) . . . . . . . . .
Holsey, Alton “Al” Lewis (R 1652-14) . .
Hudec, Captain Bruce of The Goodtime
Smith, Anthony E. (R 1650-14) . . . . . . . .
Stroh, Gary E. “Harry” (R 1664-14). . . . .

...
...
...
...
...
III
...
...

...........
...........
...........
...........
...........
(R 1651-14).
...........
...........

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1800
1800
1800
1800
1800
1800
1800
1800

Congratulations
Friedman, Judge Stuart A. (R 1654-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
McClelland, Judge Robert C. (R 1655-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
Nicastro, Judge Deborah J. (R 1656-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

Contracts
Acquire forcible entry and extrication equipment — Safety Intervention Grant — Ohio Bureau
of Workers Compensation — Safety Department (O 1448-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. 425-14 — Emerald Research Park, Ltd., — amend Contract No. 50034 — Oatey
Company — Enterprise Zone Agreement (O 1509-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 8 of Ord. 265-14 — Moms First Program — U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services — Grants (O 1619-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sections 1 & 2 of Ord. No. 298-14 — Transfer the responsibility of answering cellular
9-1-1 calls made within the City of Cleveland from the County to the City
(O 1621-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Sexual Assault Advocate Project — Violence Against Women Act (FY 2014) —
County Public Safety and Justice Services — Grants — Cleveland Rape Crisis Center
(O 1450-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Work Crew Program — community service placement for criminal defendants —
Court Community Service — Cleveland Municipal Court (O 1618-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Common Area Maintenance Agreement (CAM) — North Coast Harbor — amend Ord. 1253-12 —
Downtown Cleveland Alliance — Cleveland — Cuyahoga County Port Authority
(O 1467-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Communication and Public Relations Consulting Services — Mita Marketing, LLC (O 1598-14) . .
Community Recreation Project grant — infrastructure improvements in the Flats East Bank
development area — Flats East Bank Development, LLC (O 1620-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Computer Technology Projects — Solar Systems Networking Inc. (O 1599-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting services for utility -related matters — The Project Group (O 1602-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Developmental Disabilities Social Services Support Program — L’Arche Cleveland —
agreement — Community Development (Ward 16 NEF) (O 1633-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Discount affordability program — Cleveland Housing Network — professional services —
Utilities Department — Water Division (O 1516-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Environmental compliance, mandatory — amend Ord. 499-10, 1624-10, 1435-11 — renew Contract
No. PS 2013-22 — Leidos, Inc. — Burke Lakefront Airport Division — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport Division (O 1518-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exelis — squitter units (installation & maintenance) — Vehicle at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (O 1558-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financial Consulting and Auditing Services — Guy Gadomski, CPA (O 1601-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flats East Bank Phase II Development — sewer and stormwater infrastructure improvements —
Flats East Development, LLC — Grants — NEORSD (O 1553-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General non-capital maintenance and repairs — amend Sections 1,2,3 and 5 of Ord. 456-12 —
Burke Lakefront Airport Division — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Division (O 1446-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Infrastructure capital improvements — apply — District One Public Works Integrating
Committee — rehabilitation of U.S. Route 42, Scranton Road/Carter Road, Clark
Avenue, and East 152nd Street — Capital Projects Office (O 1348-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Law enforcement — related scientific testing services — Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner’s —
Regional Forensic Science Laboratory — agreement — Safety Department (O 1622-14). . . . .
Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration or Lead Hazard Control Grant — Healthy Homes
Grant — U.S. Department of HUD — professional services for grant writing
services (O 1418-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Legal services to defend indigents — Cleveland Municipal Court — Cuyahoga County Public
Defender Commission — Finance Department (O 1520-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
National Forum on Youth Violence Prevention Program (FY 14) — Grants — U.S. Department
of Justice (O 1511-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Operation and Sustainability Plan implementation — Cobalt Group, Inc. (O 1597-14) . . . . . . . . . . .
Playhouse Square Foundation — forgivable loan agreement — Ohio Theater Euclid Ave., 1501
(Ward 03) (O 1519-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1862

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1854
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1824

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1824

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1823

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1824
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1825
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1854

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1830

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1844
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1824

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1854
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

December 10, 2014

The City Record

67

Project NuCLEus Building A and Building B (VPI) — Gateway Huron, LLC, —
Economic Development Department (O 1571-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehabilitation MLK Boulevard Bridge project No. 5:029M — consent — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 09) (O 1514-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehabilitation MLK Boulevard Bridge project No. 5:055M — consent — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 09) (O 1515-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Replacing existing underground lift stations with above-ground stations —
public improvement — Port Control Department (O 1352-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Roofs, roof systems and appurtenances — Cleveland Public Power Division — Water Division —
Water Pollution Control Division (O 1521-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rubber and other contaminants removal from paved surfaces — Contract No. RC 2013-22 —
Hi-Lite Markings, Inc. (O 1457-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Summer Food Service Program, 2015 — for food, food products, beverages, condiments — Camp
George L. Forbes — Grants — Ohio Department of Education — Recreation Division —
Works Department (O 1625-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tenant Advocacy and Rental Information Center Program — Cleveland Tenants Organization —
agreement — Community Development (Ward 16 NEF) (O 1632-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Title X Program — Ohio Department of Health — Medicaid program payments — Grants
(O 1384-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Turney Rd. (Warner Rd. to the Cleveland south corporation line) — resurfacing — consent —
Cuyahoga County (Ward 02) (O 1349-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Youth Initiative Program — educational sessions on bicycle safety, healthy eating,
exercise and bicycle maintenance — Greater Cleveland Sports Commission — agreement —
Community Development (Ward 16 NEF) (O 1634-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vacant and Abandoned Property Action Council (VAPAC), demolition bond, reforestation,
demolition funding, rehabilitation, and code enforcement — Western Reserve Land
Conservancy d/b/a Thriving Communities Institute — agreement (O 1600-14) . . . . . . . . . . .
Various Capital Improvement Projects — Architectural and related services — professional
services — Capital Projects Office (O 1522-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Various Capital Improvement Projects — Engineering, testing, and related services —
Division of Engineering and Construction — Capital Projects Office (O 1523-14) . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1830
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1825
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1825

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

Convention Center/Mall B & C
Economic Development — tri-party agreement — Cuyahoga Co. and The Superlative Group, an
Ohio corporation — naming rights — Medical Mart Convention Center (O 1573-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834

Cuyahoga County
Amend Sections 1 & 2 of Ord. No. 298-14 — Transfer the responsibility of answering cellular
9-1-1 calls made within the City of Cleveland from the County to the City
(O 1621-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — tri-party agreement — Cuyahoga Co. and The Superlative Group, an
Ohio corporation — naming rights — Medical Mart Convention Center , Mall B &
C (O 1573-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Law enforcement — related scientific testing services — Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner’s —
Regional Forensic Science Laboratory — agreement — Safety Department (O 1622-14). . . . . .
Mental Health and Substance Abuse Prevention Program, 2015 — Cuyahoga County Alcohol
Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board — Grants — Health Department
(O 1383-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Turney Rd. (Warner Rd. to the Cleveland south corporation line) — resurfacing — consent
(Ward 02) (O 1349-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1824

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1834
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1824

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1847
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1845

Easements
Metroparks — Lake Link Trail overhead pedestrian bridge Scranton Rd. — Capital Projects
Office (Ward 03) (O 1631-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1821
Purchases and Supplies to sell a portion of City-owned property and grant temporary
easement to Twinsburg for SR 91 widening / Glenwood Drive Roundabout Project
(O 1569-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833

Economic Development Department
Amend Ord. 425-14 — Emerald Research Park, Ltd., — amend Contract No. 50034 — Oatey
Company — Enterprise Zone Agreement (O 1509-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorize Economic Development to file Petition to extend Enterprise Zone term (change
the maximum term of tax abatements from ten to fifteen years) (O 1568-14) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Recreation Project grant — infrastructure improvements in the Flats East Bank
development area — Flats East Bank Development, LLC (O 1620-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Creation of the Flats East Bank Community Authority (O 1648-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 55th, East 63rd, and Euclid Ave. (formerly known as the Ohio Knitting Mills building
site) — HUD 108 — Economic Development assistance — BEDI — Hemingway
Development, LLC (O 1449-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 7012 — The Beauty Shoppe — Empowerment Zone Program — Victory Midtown
Landlord, LLC (Ward 05) (O 1451-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1863

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1854
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1824
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1822

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831

The City Record

68

December 10, 2014

Flats East Bank Phase II Development — sewer and stormwater infrastructure improvements —
Flats East Development, LLC — Grants — NEORSD (O 1553-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
NuCLEus redevelopment project — Gateway Huron, LLC — Tax Increment Financing
Agreement (O 1570-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Playhouse Square Foundation — forgivable loan agreement — Ohio Theater Euclid Ave., 1501
(Ward 03) (O 1519-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project NuCLEus Building A and Building B (VPI) — contracts — Gateway Huron, LLC,
(O 1571-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tri-party agreement — Cuyahoga Co. and The Superlative Group, an Ohio corporation —
naming rights — Medical Mart Convention Center , Mall B & C (O 1573-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834

Encroachments
Downtown area (CP01, CP12, CP13, CP14) — right-of-way — 4 way-finding signs and electric
duct banks — Positively Cleveland — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1351-14) . . . .
Metroparks — Lake Link Trail overhead pedestrian bridge Scranton Rd. — Capital Projects
Office (Ward 03) (O 1631-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Starkweather Ave., 1109 — right-of-way — three security / surveillance cameras and
electrical connection — Prosperity Social Club, Inc. — Capital Projects Office —
City Planning Commission — CPP (Ward 03) (O 1517-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Washington Ave. — right-of-way — new handicap-accessible ramp and stair — Left Side
Developments, LLC — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward
03) (O 1246-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1830
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1821

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1830

Engineering And Construction Division
Various Capital Improvement Projects — Engineering, testing, and related services — Capital
Projects Office (O 1523-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

Enterprise Funds
Appropriations — additional — $ 200,000 — Enterprise Funds — Sinking Fund Commission —
Finance Department (O 1594-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834
Fund Transfers — $ 2,940,000 — General Fund — $ 800,000 — Special Revenue Fund —
$10,850,000 — Enterprise Fund (O 1593-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834

Enterprise Zone Agreement
Amend Ord. 425-14 — Emerald Research Park, Ltd., — amend Contract No. 50034 — Oatey
Company (O 1509-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1854
Authorize Economic Development to file Petition to extend Enterprise Zone term (change
the maximum term of tax abatements from ten to fifteen years) (O 1568-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833

Famicos Foundation
Supporting Famicos Foundation proposal to Ohio Housing Finance Agency — low-income
housing tax credits (Ward 09) (R 1638-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1826

Fees
Animal Care and Control Division — amend Sections 135.16, 135.17, 135.18, 135.180, 603.02,
603.03, 603.031, 603.04, 603.072, 603.09, 603A.04, 603A.05, 603A.06, 603A.07,
603A.10, 603A.13, 603A.16, 604.06 and 604.99 (O 1572-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833

Finance Department
Appropriations — additional — $ 200,000 — Enterprise Funds — Sinking Fund Commission
(O 1594-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Appropriations — Temporary — Year 2015 (O 1595-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bridges and Roadways Improvement Bonds, Series 2015 — $ 42,400,000 (O 1630-14) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Public Power tax remittances — FY 2015 and 2016 — General Fund (O 1350-14) . . . . .
Cleveland Work Crew Program — community service placement for criminal defendants —
Court Community Service — Cleveland Municipal Court (O 1618-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic and Community Development Revenue Bonds, Series 2015 — $ 16,300,000 (O 1627-14) .
Fund Transfers — $ 2,940,000 — General Fund — $ 800,000 — Special Revenue Fund —
$10,850,000 — Enterprise Fund (O 1593-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General Obligation Refunding Bonds (O 1591-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Legal services to defend indigents — Cleveland Municipal Court — Cuyahoga County Public
Defender Commission (O 1520-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Municipal Foremen & Laborers Local 1099 (Non — Supervisory & Supervisory) — approve
Fact-Finder’s report — Section 26, 27, and 49 — amend Ord. 385-14 — Human Resources
Department (O 1577-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North Coast Harbor Pedestrian Bridge construction — amend Ord. 1690-12 — consent and cause
payment — Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 03) (O 1447-14) . . . . . . . . . .
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds, Series 2015 — $ 11,000,000 (O 1629-14) . . . .
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds, Series 2015 — $34,000,000 (O 1628-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1864

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1834
1834
1817
1846

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1823
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1804
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1854

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1813
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1809

December 10, 2014

The City Record

Refunding Bonds — 2015 Subordinate Lien Income Tax (O 1592-14) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Residential and neighborhood development, Series 2015 — $6,900,000 (O 1626-14) .
Teamsters, Local 507 — approve collective bargaining agreement — Section 9 —
385-14 — Human Resources Department (O 1555-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

69
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
amend Ord.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833

Fire Division
Acquire forcible entry and extrication equipment — Safety Intervention Grant — Ohio Bureau
of Workers Compensation — Safety Department (O 1448-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
Donation of 100 smoke detectors — The Home Depot at Steelyard Commons — Safety
Department (F 1649-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799

Flats District
Community Recreation Project grant — infrastructure improvements in the Flats East Bank
development area — Flats East Bank Development, LLC (O 1620-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1824
Flats East Bank Phase II Development — sewer and stormwater infrastructure improvements —
Flats East Development, LLC — Grants — NEORSD (O 1553-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833
Rescinding Ordinance No. 650-08 — Flats East Bank Community Authority (O 1647-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1822

General Fund
Fund Transfers — $ 2,940,000 — General Fund — $ 800,000 — Special Revenue Fund —
$10,850,000 — Enterprise Fund (O 1593-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834

Gifts
Donation of 100 smoke detectors — The Home Depot at Steelyard Commons — Fire Division —
Safety Department (F 1649-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799

Grants
Acquire forcible entry and extrication equipment — Safety Intervention Grant — Ohio Bureau
of Workers Compensation — Safety Department (O 1448-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 8 of Ord. 265-14 — Moms First Program — U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services (O 1619-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program — Violence Against Women Act (FY 2014) — County
Public Safety and Justice Services (O 1452-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Sexual Assault Advocate Project — Violence Against Women Act (FY 2014) —
County Public Safety and Justice Services — Cleveland Rape Crisis Center (O 1450-14) . . . .
Community Recreation Project grant — infrastructure improvements in the Flats East Bank
development area — Flats East Bank Development, LLC (O 1620-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
COPS Hiring Program (FY 2013) — U.S. Department of Justice (O 1525-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 55th, East 63rd, and Euclid Ave. (formerly known as the Ohio Knitting Mills building
site) — HUD 108 — Economic Development assistance — BEDI — Hemingway
Development, LLC (O 1449-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 7012 — The Beauty Shoppe — Empowerment Zone Program — Victory Midtown
Landlord, LLC (Ward 05) (O 1451-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2015-2017 — Academy of Educational Development — Ohio
Department of Health (O 1345-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flats East Bank Phase II Development — sewer and stormwater infrastructure improvements —
Flats East Development, LLC — NEORSD (O 1553-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Healthy Weight Program, 2014-15 — Health Department — Ohio Department of Health
(O 1346-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Infrastructure capital improvements — apply — District One Public Works Integrating
Committee — rehabilitation of U.S. Route 42, Scranton Road/Carter Road, Clark
Avenue, and East 152nd Street — Capital Projects Office (O 1348-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration or Lead Hazard Control Grant — Healthy Homes
Grant — U.S. Department of HUD — professional services for grant writing
services (O 1418-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mental Health and Substance Abuse Prevention Program, 2015 — Cuyahoga County Alcohol
Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board — Health Department (O 1383-14) . . . . . .
National Forum on Youth Violence Prevention Program (FY 14) — U.S. Department of Justice
(O 1511-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nationwide Crime Analysis Capability Building Projects (FY 14) — Institute for
Intergovernmental Research — Grants (O 1554-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehabilitation MLK Boulevard Bridge project No. 5:029M — consent — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 09) (O 1514-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehabilitation MLK Boulevard Bridge project No. 5:055M — consent — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 09) (O 1515-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
STD Control Prevention Program, 2015-2017 — Ohio Department of Health (O 1347-14). . . . . . . . . .
Summer Food Service Program, 2015 — contracts for food, food products, beverages,
condiments — Camp George L. Forbes — Ohio Department of Education — Recreation
Division — Works Department (O 1625-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Title X Program — Ohio Department of Health — Medicaid program payments (O 1384-14) . . . . .

1865

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1824
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1824
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1843
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1843

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1844

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1843

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847

The City Record

70

December 10, 2014

Health Department
Amend Section 8 of Ord. 265-14 — Moms First Program — U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services — Grants (O 1619-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2015-2017 — Academy of Educational Development —
Grants — Ohio Department of Health (O 1345-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Healthy Weight Program, 2014-15 — Grants — Ohio Department of Health (O 1346-14) . . . . . . . . .
Mental Health and Substance Abuse Prevention Program, 2015 — Cuyahoga County Alcohol
Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board — Grants (O 1383-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
STD Control Prevention Program, 2015-2017 — Grants — Ohio Department of Health (O 1347-14).
Title X Program — Ohio Department of Health — Medicaid program payments — Grants
(O 1384-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1824
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1843
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1843
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1843
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847

House Bill
Opposing Am. Sub. H.B. 5 (R 1603-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1840

Housing And Urban Development (HUD)
East 55th, East 63rd, and Euclid Ave. (formerly known as the Ohio Knitting Mills building
site) — Economic Development assistance — BEDI — Hemingway Development,
LLC (O 1449-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
Euclid Ave., 7012 — The Beauty Shoppe — Empowerment Zone Program — Victory Midtown
Landlord, LLC (Ward 05) (O 1451-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration or Lead Hazard Control Grant — Healthy Homes Grant —
professional services for grant writing services (O 1418-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848

Human Resources Department
Municipal Foremen & Laborers Local 1099 (Non — Supervisory & Supervisory) — approve
Fact-Finder’s report — Section 26, 27, and 49 — amend Ord. 385-14 —
Finance Department (O 1577-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834
Teamsters, Local 507 — approve collective bargaining agreement — Section 9 — amend Ord.
385-14 — Finance Department (O 1555-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833

Lease Agreement
Amend Ord. No. 561-14 — Cumberland lease agreement for Harbor West Docks — North Coast
Harbor (three sites) (O 1507-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Office space — flight training — T & G Flying Club, Inc. — Burke Lakefront Airport Division
(O 1465-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Office space (Suite 220) — BoxCast, LLC — Burke Lakefront Airport — Port Control
Department (O 1461-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Valet parking service and lease space — SP+, fka Standard Parking Corporation — Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport (O 1464-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831

Licenses
Environmental compliance, mandatory — amend Ord. 499-10, 1624-10, 1435-11 — renew Contract
No. PS 2013-22 — Leidos, Inc. — Burke Lakefront Airport Division — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport Division (O 1518-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

Liquor Permits
Benwood Ave., 14005 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 01) (F 1607-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bosworth Rd., 3590 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 11) (R 1643-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bridge Ave., 2801 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 03) (F 1610-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chester Ave., 2701 — objection to transfer of liquor license (Ward 07) (R 1641-14) . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 105th St., 917 — withdraw objection to transfer of location — repeal Res. 1262-14
(Ward 09) (R 1662-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 36th St., 1735 — objection to issuance (Ward 07) (R 1639-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 2044 — objection to transfer of location (Ward 05) (R 1640-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 2044 — transfer of location application (Ward 05) (F 1608-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 900 & 1010 — transfer to another taxing district (Ward 03) (F 1611-14) . . . . . . . . . . .
Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., 3750 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 02) (R 1644-14) .
Miles Rd., 14731 — transfer to another taxing district (Ward 01) (F 1614-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Rd., 4360 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 01) (F 1612-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payne Ave., 3211 — withdraw objection to transfer of location — repeal Res. 1138-14 (Ward
07) (R 1645-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Riverside Dr., 5300 — new application (Ward 17) (F 1613-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Spring Rd., 1503 (1st fl.) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 12) (R 1642-14) . . . . . . . . . .
Spring Rd., 1503 (1st Flr.) — transfer of ownership application (Ward 12) (F 1609-14) . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 10643 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1196-14
(Ward 09) (R 1661-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Warren Rd., 3356 — transfer to another taxing district (Ward 17) (F 1615-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1866

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1799
1828
1799
1827

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1829
1827
1827
1799
1799
1829
1800
1799

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1829
1800
1828
1799

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1829
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

December 10, 2014

The City Record

71

Loans
Project NuCLEus Building A and Building B (VPI) — contracts — Gateway Huron, LLC, —
Economic Development Department (O 1571-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Developmental Disabilities Social Services Support Program — L’Arche Cleveland —
agreement — Community Development (Ward 16 NEF) (O 1633-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1825
Tenant Advocacy and Rental Information Center Program — Cleveland Tenants Organization —
agreement — Community Development (Ward 16 NEF) (O 1632-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1825

Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District (NEORSD)
Amend Ord. 1325-12 — East 79th St. Bridge improvements — consent and cause payment — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 06) (O 1552-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833
Flats East Bank Phase II Development — sewer and stormwater infrastructure improvements —
Flats East Development, LLC — Grants (O 1553-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833

Office of Equal Opportunity
Resident Utilization Report — November 2014 — Bi-Monthly Report — Equal Opportunity
Office (F 1660-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799

Ohio Department of Natural Resources
Community Recreation Project grant — infrastructure improvements in the Flats East Bank
development area — Flats East Bank Development, LLC (O 1620-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1824

Ohio Department of Public Health
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2015-2017 — Academy of Educational Development —
Grants (O 1345-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Healthy Weight Program, 2014-15 — Health Department — Grants (O 1346-14) . . . . . . . . . .
STD Control Prevention Program, 2015-2017 — Grants (O 1347-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Title X Program — Medicaid program payments — Grants (O 1384-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1843
1843
1843
1847

Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
Amend Ord. 1325-12 — East 79th St. Bridge improvements — consent and cause payment
(Ward 06) (O 1552-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North Coast Harbor Pedestrian Bridge construction — amend Ord. 1690-12 — consent and cause
payment (Ward 03) (O 1447-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Broadview Rd. — consent and cause payment — Capital
Projects Office (Ward 12) (O 1439-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Community College Ave. — consent and cause payment —
Capital Projects Office (Ward 05) (O 1440-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on East Blvd. and Ford Dr. — consent and cause payment — Capital
Projects Office (Ward 09) (O 1441-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Harvard Ave. — consent and cause payment — Capital Projects
Office (Ward 01) (O 1442-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Prospect Ave. — consent and cause payment — Capital
Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1443-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on West 117th St. — consent and cause payment — Capital Projects
Office (Ward 11) (O 1444-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on West Blvd. — consent and cause payment — Capital Projects Office
(Ward 11) (O 1445-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehabilitation MLK Boulevard Bridge project No. 5:029M — consent — Capital Projects Office
(Ward 09) (O 1514-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehabilitation MLK Boulevard Bridge project No. 5:055M — consent — Capital Projects Office
(Ward 09) (O 1515-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1849
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1852
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1852
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

Ohio House Finance Agency (OHFA)
Corsica Ave., 15617 — renovation of eight residential units — Emerald Development
& Economic Network, Inc. (EDEN) (Ward 08) (F 1616-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799
Supporting Famicos Foundation proposal — low-income housing tax credits (Ward 09)
(R 1638-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1826

Ohio Revised Code
Creation of the Flats East Bank Community Authority — Economic Development (O 1648-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1822
Rescinding Ordinance No. 650-08 — Flats East Bank Community Authority (O 1647-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1822

1867

The City Record

72

December 10, 2014

Permits
Downtown area (CP01, CP12, CP13, CP14) — encroach into right-of-way — 4 way-finding signs
and electric duct banks — Positively Cleveland — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03)
(O 1351-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Metroparks — Lake Link Trail overhead pedestrian bridge Scranton Rd. — Capital Projects
Office (Ward 03) (O 1631-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Starkweather Ave., 1109 — encroach into right-of-way — three security / surveillance
cameras and electrical connection — Prosperity Social Club, Inc. — Capital Projects
Office — City Planning Commission — CPP (Ward 03) (O 1517-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Santa Shuffle — Dec. 13 — Hermes Sports and Events (Ward 03) (O 1596-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Washington Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — new handicap-accessible ramp and stair —
Left Side Developments, LLC — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 03) (O 1246-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1830
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1821

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1830

Petitions
Creation of the Flats East Bank Community Authority — Economic Development (O 1648-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1822
Rescinding Ordinance No. 650-08 — Flats East Bank Community Authority (O 1647-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1822

Plats
Logan Avenue Extension (from East 97th St. to East 101st St.) — dedication plat — City
Planning Commission (Ward 07) (F 1617-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799

Playhouse Square
Forgivable loan agreement — Ohio Theater Euclid Ave., 1501 (Ward 03) (O 1519-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

Port Control Department
Amend Ord. No. 561-14 — Cumberland lease agreement for Harbor West Docks — North Coast
Harbor (three sites) (O 1507-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Common Area Maintenance Agreement (CAM) — North Coast Harbor — amend Ord. 1253-12 —
Downtown Cleveland Alliance — Cleveland — Cuyahoga County Port Authority
(O 1467-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Environmental compliance, mandatory — amend Ord. 499-10, 1624-10, 1435-11 — renew Contract
No. PS 2013-22 — Leidos, Inc. — Burke Lakefront Airport Division — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport Division (O 1518-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exelis — contracts — squitter units (installation & maintenance) — Vehicle at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport (O 1558-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General non-capital maintenance and repairs — amend Sections 1,2,3 and 5 of Ord. 456-12 —
Burke Lakefront Airport Division — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Division (O 1446-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Office space — flight training — T & G Flying Club, Inc. — lease agreement — Burke
Lakefront Airport Division (O 1465-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Office space (Suite 220) — lease agreement — BoxCast, LLC — Burke Lakefront Airport
(O 1461-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Replacing existing underground lift stations with above-ground stations —
public improvement contracts (O 1352-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rubber and other contaminants removal from paved surfaces — Contract No. RC 2013-22 —
Hi-Lite Markings, Inc. (O 1457-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Valet parking service and lease space — SP+, fka Standard Parking Corporation —
lease agreement — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 1464-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1830
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1830
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831

Professional Services
Cleveland Work Crew Program — community service placement for criminal defendants —
Court Community Service — Cleveland Municipal Court (O 1618-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Common Area Maintenance Agreement (CAM) — North Coast Harbor — amend Ord. 1253-12 —
Downtown Cleveland Alliance — Cleveland — Cuyahoga County Port Authority
(O 1467-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Communication and Public Relations Consulting Services — Mita Marketing, LLC (O 1598-14) . .
Computer Technology Projects — Solar Systems Networking Inc. (O 1599-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting services for utility -related matters — The Project Group (O 1602-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Discount affordability program — Cleveland Housing Network — contracts — Utilities
Department — Water Division (O 1516-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financial Consulting and Auditing Services — Guy Gadomski, CPA (O 1601-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration or Lead Hazard Control Grant — Healthy Homes Grant —
U.S. Department of HUD — for grant writing services (O 1418-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Operation and Sustainability Plan implementation — Cobalt Group, Inc. (O 1597-14) . . . . . . . . . . .
Vacant and Abandoned Property Action Council (VAPAC), demolition
bond, reforestation, demolition funding, rehabilitation, and code enforcement —
Western Reserve Land Conservancy d/b/a Thriving Communities Institute — agreement
(O 1600-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1868

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1823

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1832
1835
1835
1835

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1854
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835

December 10, 2014

The City Record

73

Various Capital Improvement Projects — Architectural and related services — contracts —
Capital Projects Office (O 1522-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
Various Capital Improvement Projects — Engineering, testing, and related services —
Division of Engineering and Construction — Capital Projects Office (O 1523-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

Public Improvements
General non-capital maintenance and repairs — amend Sections 1,2,3 and 5 of Ord. 456-12 —
Burke Lakefront Airport Division — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Division (O 1446-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Infrastructure capital improvements — apply — District One Public Works Integrating
Committee — rehabilitation of U.S. Route 42, Scranton Road/Carter Road, Clark
Avenue, and East 152nd Street — Capital Projects Office (O 1348-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Broadview Rd. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 12) (O 1439-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Community College Ave. — consent and cause payment — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 05)
(O 1440-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on East Blvd. and Ford Dr. — consent and cause payment — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 09)
(O 1441-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Harvard Ave. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 01) (O 1442-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Prospect Ave. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1443-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on West 117th St. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 11) (O 1444-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on West Blvd. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 11) (O 1445-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchases and Supplies to sell a portion of City-owned property and grant temporary
easement to Twinsburg for SR 91 widening / Glenwood Drive Roundabout Project
(O 1569-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehabilitation MLK Boulevard Bridge project No. 5:029M — consent — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 09) (O 1514-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehabilitation MLK Boulevard Bridge project No. 5:055M — consent — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 09) (O 1515-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Replacing existing underground lift stations with above-ground stations — contracts — Port
Control Department (O 1352-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Roofs, roof systems and appurtenances — Cleveland Public Power Division — Water Division —
Water Pollution Control Division (O 1521-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Turney Rd. (Warner Rd. to the Cleveland south corporation line) — resurfacing — consent —
Cuyahoga County (Ward 02) (O 1349-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1830

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1844
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1849

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1852
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1852

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1830
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845

Public Works
Excessively Large Quantity of Waste Disposal — Civil Infractions — Amend Section 551.05,
551.111 and 551.991 (O 974-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1841
Johnny Kilbane Sculpture Project — Irish American Archives Society, Inc. — agreement
(Ward(s) 15, 13, 16 and 17) (O 1635-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1825
Summer Food Service Program, 2015 — contracts for food, food products, beverages,
condiments — Camp George L. Forbes — Grants — Ohio Department of Education —
Recreation Division (O 1625-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

Purchases And Supplies Division
To sell a portion of City-owned property and grant temporary easement to Twinsburg for
SR 91 widening / Glenwood Drive Roundabout Project (O 1569-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833

Races
The Santa Shuffle — permit — Dec. 13 — Hermes Sports and Events (Ward 03) (O 1596-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

Recognition
The RISE Foundation of Dublin, Ireland (R 1657-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

Recreation Centers
Summer Food Service Program, 2015 — contracts for food, food products, beverages,
condiments — Camp George L. Forbes — Grants — Ohio Department of Education —
Recreation Division — Works Department (O 1625-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

Reports
Resident Utilization Report — November 2014 — Bi-Monthly Report — Equal Opportunity
Office (F 1660-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799

1869

The City Record

74

December 10, 2014

Resolution of Support
Supporting Catholic Charities Housing Corporation — develop affordable housing for senior
citizens — St. Vincent de Paul Parish — Lorain Ave., 13400 (Ward 16) (R 1637-14) . . . . . .
Supporting Famicos Foundation proposal to Ohio Housing Finance Agency — low-income
housing tax credits (Ward 09) (R 1638-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urging moratorium on Social Security Office closings and service cuts (R 1636-14). . . . . . . . . .
Urging Ohio State Board of Education to allow more community input before eliminate the
“5 of 8” rule (R 1604-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1826
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1826
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1826
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1841

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Opposing Am. Sub. H.B. 5 (R 1603-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1840
Supporting Catholic Charities Housing Corporation — develop affordable housing for senior
citizens — St. Vincent de Paul Parish — Lorain Ave., 13400 (Ward 16) (R 1637-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1826
Urging moratorium on Social Security Office closings and service cuts (R 1636-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1826

Revenue Bonds
Fund Transfers — $ 2,940,000 — General Fund — $ 800,000 — Special Revenue Fund —
$10,850,000 — Enterprise Fund (O 1593-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834

Safety Department
Acquire forcible entry and extrication equipment — Safety Intervention Grant — Ohio Bureau
of Workers Compensation (O 1448-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sections 1 & 2 of Ord. No. 298-14 — Transfer the responsibility of answering cellular
9-1-1 calls made within the City of Cleveland from the County to the City
(O 1621-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Animal Care and Control Division — amend Sections 135.16, 135.17, 135.18, 135.180, 603.02,
603.03, 603.031, 603.04, 603.072, 603.09, 603A.04, 603A.05, 603A.06, 603A.07,
603A.10, 603A.13, 603A.16, 604.06 and 604.99 (O 1572-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program — Violence Against Women Act (FY 2014) — County
Public Safety and Justice Services — Grant (O 1452-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Sexual Assault Advocate Project — Violence Against Women Act (FY 2014) —
County Public Safety and Justice Services — Grants — Cleveland Rape Crisis Center
(O 1450-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
COPS Hiring Program (FY 2013) — Grants — U.S. Department of Justice (O 1525-14). . . . . . . . . . . .
Donation of 100 smoke detectors — The Home Depot at Steelyard Commons — Fire
Division (F 1649-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Law enforcement — related scientific testing services — Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner’s —
Regional Forensic Science Laboratory — agreement (O 1622-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
National Forum on Youth Violence Prevention Program (FY 14) — Grants — U.S. Department
of Justice (O 1511-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nationwide Crime Analysis Capability Building Projects (FY 14) — Institute for
Intergovernmental Research — Grants (O 1554-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1831

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1824

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1833
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1831

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1799
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1824
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1833

Salaries
Municipal Foremen & Laborers Local 1099 (Non — Supervisory & Supervisory) — approve
Fact-Finder’s report — Section 26, 27, and 49 — amend Ord. 385-14 —
Finance Department — Human Resources Department (O 1577-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834
Teamsters, Local 507 — approve collective bargaining agreement — Section 9 — amend Ord.
385-14 — Finance Department — Human Resources Department (O 1555-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833

Special Revenue Funds
Fund Transfers — $ 2,940,000 — General Fund — $ 800,000 — Special Revenue Fund —
$10,850,000 — Enterprise Fund (O 1593-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1834

State of Ohio
Infrastructure capital improvements — apply — District One Public Works Integrating
Committee — rehabilitation of U.S. Route 42, Scranton Road/Carter Road, Clark
Avenue, and East 152nd Street — Capital Projects Office (O 1348-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1844

Street Vacation
East 117th St. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 06) (R 1526-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Logan Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 07) (R 1624-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Logan Court N.E. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(Ward 07) (O 1623-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 74th St. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 15) (R 1245-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1870

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1823
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1824
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835

December 10, 2014

The City Record

75

Streets — Name
East 112th St. (Primrose Ave. and Superior Ave.) — secondary and honorary designation of
Steve Harvey Way — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 09)
(O 1557-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

Utilities Department
Cleveland Public Power tax remittances — FY 2015 and 2016 — General Fund — Finance
Department (O 1350-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting services for utility -related matters — The Project Group (O 1602-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Discount affordability program — Cleveland Housing Network — professional services —
contracts — Water Division (O 1516-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchases and Supplies to sell a portion of City-owned property and grant temporary
easement to Twinsburg for SR 91 widening / Glenwood Drive Roundabout Project
(O 1569-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Roofs, roof systems and appurtenances — Cleveland Public Power Division — Water Division —
Water Pollution Control Division (O 1521-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1846
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1854

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

Ward 01
Benwood Ave., 14005 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1607-14). . . . . . . .
Dedek, George E. — Condolence (R 1653-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hudec, Captain Bruce of The Goodtime III — Condolence (R 1651-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Rd., 14731 — transfer to another taxing district — liquor permit (F 1614-14). . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Rd., 4360 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1612-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Harvard Ave. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 1442-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sweeney, Councilman Martin J. — Appreciation (R 1658-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1799
1800
1800
1800
1799

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

Ward 02
Dedek, George E. — Condolence (R 1653-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Drake, Katherine — Condolence (R 1667-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hudec, Captain Bruce of The Goodtime III — Condolence (R 1651-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., 3750 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit
(R 1644-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sweeney, Councilman Martin J. — Appreciation (R 1658-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Turney Rd. (Warner Rd. to the Cleveland south corporation line) — resurfacing — consent —
Cuyahoga County (O 1349-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1829
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845

Ward 03
Bridge Ave., 2801 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1610-14). . . . . . . . . . . .
Dedek, George E. — Condolence (R 1653-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Downtown area (CP01, CP12, CP13, CP14) — encroach into right-of-way — 4 way-finding signs
and electric duct banks — Positively Cleveland — Capital Projects Office
(O 1351-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 900 & 1010 — transfer to another taxing district — liquor permit (F 1611-14) . . . . . .
Hudec, Captain Bruce of The Goodtime III — Condolence (R 1651-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Metroparks — Lake Link Trail overhead pedestrian bridge Scranton Rd. — Capital Projects
Office (O 1631-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North Coast Harbor Pedestrian Bridge construction — amend Ord. 1690-12 — consent and cause
payment — Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) (O 1447-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Prospect Ave. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 1443-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Playhouse Square Foundation — forgivable loan agreement — Ohio Theater Euclid Ave., 1501
(O 1519-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Regional Visitor Destination Overlay District (RVD) — enact Section 343.24 (O 1646-14) . . . . . .
Rescinding Ordinance No. 650-08 — Flats East Bank Community Authority (O 1647-14) . . . . . . . .
Starkweather Ave., 1109 — encroach into right-of-way — three security / surveillance
cameras and electrical connection — Prosperity Social Club, Inc. — Capital Projects
Office — City Planning Commission — CPP (O 1517-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sweeney, Councilman Martin J. — Appreciation (R 1658-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Santa Shuffle — permit — Dec. 13 — Hermes Sports and Events (O 1596-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urging Ohio State Board of Education to allow more community input before eliminate the
“5 of 8” rule (R 1604-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Washington Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — new handicap-accessible ramp and stair —
Left Side Developments, LLC — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (O 1246-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1830
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1821
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1822
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1822

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1841

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1830

Ward 04
Dedek, George E. — Condolence (R 1653-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
Hudec, Captain Bruce of The Goodtime III — Condolence (R 1651-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
Sweeney, Councilman Martin J. — Appreciation (R 1658-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

1871

The City Record

76

December 10, 2014

Ward 05
Dedek, George E. — Condolence (R 1653-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 2044 — objection to transfer of location — liquor permit (R 1640-14) . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 2044 — transfer of location application — liquor permit (F 1608-14) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 7012 — The Beauty Shoppe — Empowerment Zone Program — Victory Midtown
Landlord, LLC (O 1451-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hudec, Captain Bruce of The Goodtime III — Condolence (R 1651-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Community College Ave. — consent and cause payment — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 1440-14) . . . . . . . . . .
Sweeney, Councilman Martin J. — Appreciation (R 1658-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1827
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1849
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

Ward 06
Amend Ord. 1325-12 — East 79th St. Bridge improvements — consent and cause payment —
Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) (O 1552-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Boyd, William — Condolence (R 1666-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dedek, George E. — Condolence (R 1653-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 117th St. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (R 1526-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hudec, Captain Bruce of The Goodtime III — Condolence (R 1651-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sweeney, Councilman Martin J. — Appreciation (R 1658-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wheeler, Cosandra — Appreciation (R 1659-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1833
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1835
1800
1800
1800

Chester Ave., 2701 — objection to transfer of liquor license — liquor permit (R 1641-14). . . . . . .
Dedek, George E. — Condolence (R 1653-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 36th St., 1735 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 1639-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hudec, Captain Bruce of The Goodtime III — Condolence (R 1651-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Logan Avenue Extension (from East 97th St. to East 101st St.) — dedication plat — City
Planning Commission (F 1617-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Logan Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (R 1624-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Logan Court N.E. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(O 1623-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payne Ave., 3211 — withdraw objection to transfer of location — repeal Res. 1138-14 —
liquor permit (R 1645-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sweeney, Councilman Martin J. — Appreciation (R 1658-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1827
1800
1827
1800

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

Ward 07

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1823
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1824
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1829
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

Ward 08
Corsica Ave., 15617 — renovation of eight residential units — Emerald Development
& Economic Network, Inc. (EDEN) — Ohio Housing Finance Agency (F 1616-14) .
Dedek, George E. — Condolence (R 1653-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Friedman, Judge Stuart A. — Congratulations (R 1654-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hudec, Captain Bruce of The Goodtime III — Condolence (R 1651-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
McClelland, Judge Robert C. — Congratulations (R 1655-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nicastro, Judge Deborah J. — Congratulations (R 1656-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sweeney, Councilman Martin J. — Appreciation (R 1658-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urging moratorium on Social Security Office closings and service cuts (R 1636-14). . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1799
1800
1800
1800
1800
1800
1800
1826

Ward 09
Dedek, George E. — Condolence (R 1653-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 105th St., 917 — withdraw objection to transfer of location — repeal Res. 1262-14 —
liquor permit (R 1662-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 112th St. (Primrose Ave. and Superior Ave.) — secondary and honorary designation of
Steve Harvey Way — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (O 1557-14)
Hudec, Captain Bruce of The Goodtime III — Condolence (R 1651-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on East Blvd. and Ford Dr. — consent and cause payment — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 1441-14) . . . . . . . . .
Rehabilitation MLK Boulevard Bridge project No. 5:029M — consent — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 1514-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehabilitation MLK Boulevard Bridge project No. 5:055M — consent — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 1515-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 10643 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1196-14 —
liquor permit (R 1661-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting Famicos Foundation proposal to Ohio Housing Finance Agency — low-income
housing tax credits (R 1638-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sweeney, Councilman Martin J. — Appreciation (R 1658-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1829
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1829
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1826
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

Ward 10
Dedek, George E. — Condolence (R 1653-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
Holsey, Alton “Al” Lewis — Condolence (R 1652-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

1872

December 10, 2014

The City Record

77

Hudec, Captain Bruce of The Goodtime III — Condolence (R 1651-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
Smith, Anthony E. — Condolence (R 1650-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
Sweeney, Councilman Martin J. — Appreciation (R 1658-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

Ward 11
Bosworth Rd., 3590 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1643-14). . . . . . . . .
Dedek, George E. — Condolence (R 1653-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hookah lounges and vapor lounges — amend Section 343.11- enact Section 347.121 — Building
and Housing Department (O 1396-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hudec, Captain Bruce of The Goodtime III — Condolence (R 1651-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on West 117th St. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 1444-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on West Blvd. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 1445-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sweeney, Councilman Martin J. — Appreciation (R 1658-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1828
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1830
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1852
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1852
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

Ward 12
Dedek, George E. — Condolence (R 1653-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hudec, Captain Bruce of The Goodtime III — Condolence (R 1651-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Broadview Rd. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 1439-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Spring Rd., 1503 (1st fl.) — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1642-14) . . . . .
Spring Rd., 1503 (1st Flr.) — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1609-14) . . . .
Sweeney, Councilman Martin J. — Appreciation (R 1658-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1848
1828
1799
1800

Ward 13
Dedek, George E. — Condolence (R 1653-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hudec, Captain Bruce of The Goodtime III — Condolence (R 1651-14) . . . . .
Johnny Kilbane Sculpture Project — Irish American Archives Society, Inc.
Works Department (Ward(s) 15, 13, 16 and 17) (O 1635-14) . . . . . . . . . . .
Opposing Am. Sub. H.B. 5 (R 1603-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sweeney, Councilman Martin J. — Appreciation (R 1658-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

...............
...............
— agreement —
...............
...............
...............

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1825
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1840
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

Ward 14
Dedek, George E. — Condolence (R 1653-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
Hudec, Captain Bruce of The Goodtime III — Condolence (R 1651-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
Sweeney, Councilman Martin J. — Appreciation (R 1658-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

Ward 15
Bennett, Robert T. — Condolence (R 1665-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dedek, George E. — Condolence (R 1653-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hudec, Captain Bruce of The Goodtime III — Condolence (R 1651-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnny Kilbane Sculpture Project — Irish American Archives Society, Inc. — agreement —
Works Department (Ward(s) 15, 13, 16 and 17) (O 1635-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sweeney, Councilman Martin J. — Appreciation (R 1658-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 74th St. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (R 1245-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1825
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1835

Ward 16
Bennett, Robert T. — Condolence (R 1665-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dedek, George E. — Condolence (R 1653-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Developmental Disabilities Social Services Support Program — L’Arche Cleveland —
agreement — Community Development (Ward 16 NEF) (O 1633-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hudec, Captain Bruce of The Goodtime III — Condolence (R 1651-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnny Kilbane Sculpture Project — Irish American Archives Society, Inc. — agreement —
Works Department (Ward(s) 15, 13, 16 and 17) (O 1635-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stroh, Gary E. “Harry “ — Condolence (R 1664-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting Catholic Charities Housing Corporation — develop affordable housing for senior
citizens — St. Vincent de Paul Parish — Lorain Ave., 13400 (R 1637-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sweeney, Councilman Martin J. — Appreciation (R 1658-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tenant Advocacy and Rental Information Center Program — Cleveland Tenants Organization —
agreement — Community Development (Ward 16 NEF) (O 1632-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Youth Initiative Program — educational sessions on bicycle safety, healthy eating,
exercise and bicycle maintenance — Greater Cleveland Sports Commission — agreement —
Community Development (Ward16 NEF) (O 1634-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1825
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1825
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1826
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1825

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1825

Ward 17
Dedek, George E. — Condolence (R 1653-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
Hudec, Captain Bruce of The Goodtime III — Condolence (R 1651-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

1873

The City Record

78

Johnny Kilbane Sculpture Project — Irish American Archives Society, Inc. — agreement —
Works Department (Ward(s) 15, 13, 16 and 17) (O 1635-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Riverside Dr., 5300 — new application — liquor permit (F 1613-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stroh, Gary E. “Harry” — Condolence (R 1664-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sweeney, Councilman Martin J. — Appreciation (R 1658-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The RISE Foundation of Dublin, Ireland — Recognition (R 1657-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Warren Rd., 3356 — transfer to another taxing district — liquor permit (F 1615-14) . . . . . . . .

December 10, 2014
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1825
1800
1800
1800
1800
1800

Waste Collection And Disposal Division
Excessively Large Quantity of Waste Disposal — Civil Infractions — Amend Section 551.05,
551.111 and 551.991 (O 974-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1841

Water Division
Discount affordability program — Cleveland Housing Network — professional services —
contracts — Utilities Department (O 1516-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1854
Roofs, roof systems and appurtenances — Cleveland Public Power Division — Water Pollution
Control Division (O 1521-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

Water Pollution Control Division (WPC)
Roofs, roof systems and appurtenances — Cleveland Public Power Division — Water Division
(O 1521-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

Zoning Code
Hookah lounges and vapor lounges — amend Section 343.11- enact Section 347.121 — Building
and Housing Department (O 1396-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1830

1874

