The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

December the Third, Two Thousand and Fourteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

29

Board of Control

29

Civil Service

30

1 Terrell H. Pruitt

Board of Zoning Appeals

30

2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
32

4 Kenneth L. Johnson

Public Notice

32

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

32

6 Mamie J. Mitchell

City of Cleveland Bids

32

7 TJ Dow

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

33

Committee Meetings

37

Index

38

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Jeffrey D. Johnson
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Martin J. Sweeney
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zack Reed ..........................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
44119
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Martin J. Flask, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Special Projects
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Public Affairs
Edward W. Rybka, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY – Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., Director
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Sharon Dumas, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Toinette Parrilla, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Chantez Williams, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Myron Benett, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Ronald J.H. O'Leary, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Eugene R. Miller (Board Lawyer), Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice
Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary
Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa
Ryan, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth
Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director; Anthony
J. Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Allan Dreyer, Giancarlo Calicchia, Council Member
Terrell H. Pruitt, Robert Strickland, Julie Trott, Robert Vilkas, Donald Petit, Interim
Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Ed Wade – Courtroom 12A
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Chief Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2014

Vol. 101

No. 5269

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2014
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED

Mayor's Appointments Committee:
Sweeney (CHAIR), Brady, Cleveland, Dow, Kelley.

Ord. No. 1588-14.
By Council Members Mitchell, K.
Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of East 97th Street.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
1414-13, adopted November 25, 2013,
this Council declared its intention to
vacate a portion of East 97th Street;
and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on the
abutting property owners affected by
the resolution which stated a time
and place when objections would be
heard before the Board of Revision of
Assessments; and
Whereas, on October 23, 2014, the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating
a portion of the above and that it will
not be detrimental to the general
interest and that it should be made;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
Beginning at a drill hole in a stone
in a monument box found at an angle
point on the centerline of Chester
Avenue N.E. (86 feet wide);
Thence South 86° 54' 48" East,
along the centerline of said Chester
Avenue N.E., a distance of 55.88 feet to
a point, said point being witnessed by
a drill hole in a stone in a monument
box found north 0.02 feet and east 0.06
feet;
Thence South 00° 53' 30" East, a distance of 43.10 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set
w/cap on the southerly line of Chester
Avenue N.E., and the easterly right of
way of East 97th Street (56.00 feet
wide) and the TRUE POINT OF
BEGINNING of the herein described
tract of land;
01. Thence South 00° 53' 29" East,
along said easterly right of way of
East 97th Street a distance of 660.99
feet to a 5/8" iron pin set w/cap on the
northerly line of Euclid Avenue
(Variable Width);
02. Thence South 88° 38' 25" West,
along the northerly line of said Euclid
Avenue a distance of 56.00 feet to its
intersection with the westerly right
of way of said East 97th Street and a
5/8" iron pin set w/cap;
03. Thence North 00° 53' 29" West,
along said westerly right of way of

Operations
Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR), Kelley, Keane, Mitchell,
Zone.

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2014-2017
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman
(CHAIR), Mitchell (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Property Committee: K. Johnson
(CHAIR), Sweeney (VICE-CHAIR),
Brancatelli, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, Reed.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley (CHAIR), Cleveland (VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Cimperman, Cummins, Dow, Pruitt, Zone.

Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Keane, Pruitt.

Kelley
Cummins,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, December 1, 2014
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 7:05 p.m. with the
President of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Brian J. Cummins,
TJ Dow, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Kevin
J. Kelley, Kenneth L. Johnson, Martin J. Keane, Mamie J. Mitchell,
Michael D. Polensek, Terrell H.
Pruitt, Martin J. Sweeney.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Government
Affairs Valarie J. McCall, Chief of
Regional Development Edward W.
Rybka, Chief of Education Monyka
S. Price, Chief of Sustainability Jenita McGowan, Chief of Public Affairs
Natoya Walker-Minor, and Directors
Langhenry,
Spronz,
Parrilla,
McGrath,
Cox,
Rush,
O’Leary,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Griffin,
Fumich and Burrows.

TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR),
Brady
(VICEBrancatelli,
Cummins,
CHAIR),
Keane, Mitchell, Polensek.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Zone (VICE-CHAIR),
J.Johnson, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Sweeney.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone
(CHAIR),
Conwell
(VICECHAIR), Cimperman, Dow, K.Johnson, Keane, Polensek.
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Dow
(VICE-CHAIR), Conwell, J. Johnson,
K.Johnson, Reed, Sweeney.

Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
Pastor Earl Bumgarner, City of God
Baptist Fellowship, Cleveland, Ohio
(Ward 10). Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Cleveland, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed
with
and
the
journal
approved. Seconded by Council Member Sweeney.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1605-14—David Collier.
Res. No. 1606-14—Tony Smith.

1751

4
said East 97th Street a distance of
665.34 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set w/cap
on the southerly line of said Chester
Avenue N.E.;
04. Thence South 86° 54' 48" East,
along the southerly line of said
Chester Avenue N.E., a distance of
56.14 feet to the True Point of Beginning and containing, more or less
0.853 acres and subject to all legal
easements, restrictions, reservations,
conditions and rights-of-way of previous record.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved to
the City of Cleveland, an easement of
full width as described above for
AT&T, Dominion East Ohio Gas Company, The Illuminating Company and
the Division of Water.
That no structures shall be erected
on the premises described in this easement except those constructed under
the approval of, and in compliance
with, plans approved by AT&T,
Dominion East Ohio Gas Company,
The Illuminating Company, the Division of Water, Department of Urban
Forestry and the City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That provided City of
Cleveland Department of Urban
Forestry receives reimbursement for
nine (9) Tilia Cordata trees in the
amount of $441 and all required
approvals have been obtained, the
Manager of Engineering and Construction is directed to record the
vacation plat in the office of the
Recorder of Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit a copy of this
ordinance to the Fiscal Officer of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects,City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1589-14.
By Council Members Cleveland, K.
Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of East 38th Place.
Whereas, under Resolution No. 39314, adopted June 4, 2014, this Council
declared its intention to vacate a portion of East 38th Place; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on the
abutting property owners affected by
the resolution which stated a time
and place when objections would be
heard before the Board of Revision of
Assessments; and
Whereas, on November 20, 2014, the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating
a portion of the above and that it will
not be detrimental to the general
interest and that it should be made;
and

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
Being all that portion of East 38th
Place (16.00 Feet Wide) extending
from the south line of Trumbull Street
S.E. (60.00 Feet wide) southerly to its
intersection with the Limit Access
right of way of Interstate 77.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved to
the City of Cleveland an easement of
full width as described above for The
Illuminating Company.
That no structures shall be erected
on the premises described in this easement except those constructed under
the approval of, and in compliance
with, plans approved by The Illuminating Company and the City of
Cleveland;
Section
3.
That
provided
all
required
approvals
have
been
obtained, the Manager of Engineering and Construction is directed to
record the vacation plat in the office
of the Recorder of Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit a copy of this
ordinance to the Fiscal Officer of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1590-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of City Planning to
apply for and accept grants from the
Federal Highway Administration
through their FY 2014 TIGER program and from the Northeast Ohio
Areawide Coordinating Agency for
the East 105th / East 93rd Transportation Corridor Project; and authorizing the Director to employ one or
more professional consultants and
authorizing contracts with various
agencies, entities, or individuals to
implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of City
Planning is authorized to apply for
and accept grants in an amount up to
$400,000 from the Federal Highway
Administration through their FY 2014
TIGER program and from the Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating
Agency in an amount up to $75,000 to
conduct the East 105th / East 93rd
Transportation Corridor Project; that
the Director is authorized to file all

1752

December 3, 2014
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the document entitled
“Maximizing Opportunity through
Transportation
Enhancements:
Cleveland’s East 105th / East 93rd
Transportation Corridor” and placed
in the file described below.
Section 2. That the document
described above for the grant, presented to the Finance Committee of
this Council at a public hearing on
this legislation and set forth in File
No. 1590-14-A, is made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, including the obligation of the City of Cleveland to provide cash matching funds
in the sum up to $101,500 as the match
for the TIGER grant and up to $18,500
as the match for the NOACA grant, for
a total aggregate cash match amount
up to $120,000 from funds appropriated for these purposes in budget year
2015, is approved in all respects, and
shall not be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of City
Planning is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to implement the grant as described in the
file.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of City Planning from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of City Planning for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of City
Planning, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 4. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(B) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of City Planning may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 5. That the Director of City
Planning is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with or make
payments various agencies, entities,
or individuals, including but not limited to the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority, the Northeast
Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency,
the Northeast Ohio regional Sewer
District, to implement the grant as
described in the file.
Section 6. That the costs of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance and the cash matches.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately

December 3, 2014
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Development Planning
and Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 1591-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of one or
more series of General Obligation
Refunding Bonds to refund currently
outstanding general obligation bonds
of the City to obtain debt service savings and authorizing and approving
related matters.
Whereas, the City has from time to
time issued general obligation bonds
in various series that are currently
outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $268,445,000; and
Whereas, this Council has determined to authorize the City to issue
one or more series of Refunding
Bonds (as defined in Section 1) for the
purpose of obtaining debt service savings with respect to all currently outstanding general obligation bonds of
the City; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has previously certified to this Council that
the estimated life or usefulness of
each of the Projects (as defined
below) was, at the time the original
Bonds for each Project were issued, at
least five years, and that the maximum maturity of that portion of the
Refunding Bonds to be allocated to
each of the Projects financed by the
original Bonds to be refunded is
December 31 of the years determined
by the Director of Finance for each
Project based on each Project’s estimated life or usefulness; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed May 6, 1983 and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed June 10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so amended and
as the same may further be amended
from time to time in accordance with
its provisions, is referred to as the
“General Bond Ordinance”), providing the general terms and provisions
for the issuance of unvoted general
obligations of the City, with the specific terms of each series of Bonds to
be contained in ordinances authorizing the issuance of Bonds in accordance with the provisions thereof
(the “Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of Refunding Bonds is necessary to enable the City to take
advantage of favorable market conditions on a timely basis to obtain debt
service savings, and as a result, this
Ordinance constitutes an emergency
measure providing for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, property, health and safety, and for the
usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. One or more
series of general obligation refunding bonds of the City (“Refunding
Bonds”) are authorized to be issued
for the purpose of refunding one or
more series of the City’s outstanding
general obligation bonds, or designated maturities thereof, issued to provide funds to pay costs of various projects of the City (the “Projects”) and

The City Record
identified in the Certificate of Award
authorized in Section 4 (“Refunded
Bonds”), including the payment of
any expenses relating to the refunding of the Refunded Bonds and the
issuance of the Refunding Bonds,
including any financing costs within
the meaning of Revised Code Section
133.01(K), provided that the aggregate net present value debt service
savings resulting from the refunding
of the Refunded Bonds is not less than
3%.
The aggregate principal amount of
each respective series of Refunding
Bonds to be issued under this Ordinance shall be in an amount determined by the Director of Finance and
set forth in the Certificate of Award
as the amount required to be issued,
taking into account any original
issue discount and/or original issue
premium on the sale of the Refunding
Bonds, in order to refund the Refunded Bonds and pay any expenses relating to the refunding of the Refunded
Bonds and the issuance of the Refunding Bonds. The Refunding Bonds may
be issued in one or more separate
series, each bearing a distinctive designation, provided that the Refunding Bonds of each series satisfy the
requirements of this Ordinance and
the aggregate net present value debt
service savings to the City resulting
from each series of Refunding Bonds
is not less than 3%. Separate series of
Refunding Bonds may be issued at
the same or different times. The
Refunding Bonds of each series shall
be designated as provided in the
applicable Certificate of Award. A
separate Certificate of Award may be
delivered for each series.
Section 2. Authority and Terms. The
Refunding Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the provisions of Article
XVIII of the Constitution of Ohio,
Revised Code Chapter 133 and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the General Bond Ordinance and this Ordinance in the principal amount and for
the purpose stated in Section 1. The
Refunding Bonds of each series shall
be issued in one lot as fully registered
bonds in denominations of $5,000 or
any integral multiple thereof but in
no case as to a particular maturity
date exceeding the principal amount
maturing on that date. The Refunding Bonds shall bear the designation
and be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance.
The Refunding Bonds shall be
dated the date and shall bear interest
at the rate or rates per year specified
in the Certificate of Award, provided
the weighted average of such rates
per series of Refunding Bonds (taking into account the principal amount
and maturity of each Refunding Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed 6% per year. Interest on the
Refunding Bonds shall be payable
when due, or until the principal
amount is paid, semiannually as specified in the Certificate of Award as
the dates on which interest on the
Refunding Bonds shall be payable
(the “Interest Payment Dates”),
beginning on the date specified in the
Certificate of Award as the first Interest Payment Date.
The Refunding Bonds shall mature
in the years and principal amounts as
shall be permitted by law and determined by the Director of Finance and
specified in the Certificate of Award,
based on (i) the written advice of a
Financial Advisor to be in the best

1753

5
interests of the City given market
conditions at the time the Refunding
Bonds are sold and (ii) the objectives
of the plan of refunding to obtain
aggregate net present value debt service savings of not less than 3%.
The Director of Finance also shall
determine and certify, on or prior to
the date of delivery of the Refunding
Bonds to the Original Purchaser, that
portion of the aggregate principal
amount of the Refunding Bonds that
is allocable to each Project, and the
principal amount of Refunding Bonds
allocated to each Project that shall be
payable at stated maturity or pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(as
defined below) on the applicable principal payment dates; provided, that
(i) the aggregate principal amount of
the Refunding Bonds allocable to a
Project shall be determined by the
Director of Finance on a pro rata
basis by reference to the respective
amount of funds that is required for
the refunding of the Refunded Bonds
that are allocable to that Project, taking into account any funds other than
the proceeds of the Refunding Bonds
that are available and appropriated
for that purpose, and (ii) no portion of
the aggregate principal amount of
Refunding Bonds allocated to a Project shall be payable later than the
maximum maturity for that portion of
the Refunding Bonds as certified by
the Director of Finance.
The Refunding Bonds stated to
mature in any year may be issued as
term bonds (the “Term Refunding
Bonds”), payable pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements as defined and further
described below. The Director of
Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award whether any of the
Refunding Bonds shall be issued as
Term Refunding Bonds, any dates
(the “Mandatory Redemption Dates”)
on which the principal amount of the
Term Refunding Bonds shall be
payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund installments rather than at
stated maturity and the amount of
principal to be paid on each Mandatory Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Refunding Bonds shall be subject to redemption prior to stated
maturity as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Refunding
Bonds are issued as Term Refunding
Bonds, the Term Refunding Bonds
shall be subject to mandatory sinking
fund redemption and be redeemed
pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirements, at a
redemption price of 100% of the principal amount redeemed, plus interest
accrued to the redemption date, on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to be
deposited with the Escrow Agent, currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of and
interest on any Term Refunding
Bonds shall include amounts sufficient to redeem on the Mandatory
Redemption Dates the principal
amount of Term Refunding Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided
below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined in
Section 3) for cancellation Term

6
Refunding Bonds in any aggregate
principal amount and to receive a
credit
against
the
then-current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory redemption obligation) of
the City for any Term Refunding
Bonds. That option shall be exercised
by the City on or before the forty-fifth
(45th) day preceding the applicable
Mandatory Redemption Date, by furnishing the Escrow Agent a certificate, signed by the Registrar, setting
forth the extent of the credit to be
applied with respect to the then-current
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirement. If the certificate is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Refunding
Bonds which prior thereto have been
redeemed (other than through the
operation of the Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements) or
purchased for cancellation and canceled by the Registrar, to the extent
not applied theretofore as a credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Refunding Bond so
delivered, or previously redeemed, or
purchased and canceled, shall be credited by the Escrow Agent at 100% of
the principal amount thereof against
the then-current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation). Any excess of that
amount over the then-current Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption
shall
be
credited
Requirement
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b) Optional Redemption. The
Refunding Bonds may be subject to
redemption prior to maturity by and
at the option of the City, in whole or in
part on any date, in whole multiples
of $5,000, on the optional redemption
dates and at the redemption prices
specified in the Certificate of Award,
plus, in each case, accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that
it is in the best interests of the City
for some or all of the Refunding
Bonds not to be callable prior to their
stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, the Refunding
Bonds, or portions thereof, to be
redeemed optionally shall be selected
by lot prior to the selection by lot of
the Refunding Bonds to be redeemed
on the same date by operation of the
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements of paragraph (a). The
Refunding Bonds shall be redeemed
pursuant to this paragraph only upon
written notice from the Director of
Finance to the Registrar. That notice
shall specify the redemption date and
the principal amount of each maturity
of Refunding Bonds to be redeemed,
and shall be given at least forty-five

The City Record
(45) days prior to the redemption date
or such shorter period as shall be
acceptable to the Registrar. There
shall be deposited with the Registrar
on or prior to the redemption date,
funds sufficient to redeem at the
redemption
price,
all
of
the
redeemable Refunding Bonds for
which notice of redemption has been
given.
(c) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Refunding
Bonds are called for redemption at
one time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than all
Refunding Bonds of a single maturity
are to be redeemed, the selection of
Refunding Bonds to be redeemed, or
portions thereof in amounts of $5,000
or any integral multiple thereof, shall
be made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar.
In the case of a partial redemption of
Refunding Bonds by lot when Refunding Bonds of denominations greater
than $5,000 are then outstanding, each
$5,000 unit of principal thereof shall
be treated as though it were a separate Refunding Bond of the denomination of $5,000. If it is determined
that one or more, but not all of the
$5,000 units of principal amount represented by a Refunding Bond are to
be called for redemption, then upon
notice of redemption of a $5,000 unit
or units, the registered owner of that
Refunding Bond shall surrender the
Refunding Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the date
fixed for redemption and any premium), and (ii) for issuance, without
charge to the registered owner thereof, of a new Refunding Bond or
Refunding Bonds of any authorized
denomination or denominations in an
aggregate principal amount equal to
the unmatured and unredeemed portion of, and bearing interest at the
same rate and maturing on the same
date as, the Refunding Bond surrendered.
(d) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Refunding Bonds shall identify (i) by
designation, letters, numbers or other
distinguishing marks, the Refunding
Bonds or portions thereof to be
redeemed (ii) the redemption price to
be paid (iii) the date fixed for
redemption, and (iv) the place or
places where the amounts due upon
redemption are payable. The notice
shall be given by the Registrar on
behalf of the City by mailing a copy of
the redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty
(30) days prior to the date fixed for
redemption (or such period specified
in the Certificate of Award), to the
registered owner of each Refunding
Bond subject to redemption in whole
or in part at the registered owner’s
address shown on the Register maintained by the Registrar at the close of
business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing. Failure to receive
notice by mail or any defect in that
notice regarding any Refunding
Bond, however, shall not affect the
validity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any Refunding Bond.
Any notice of redemption of any
Refunding Bonds may specify that
the redemption is contingent on the
deposit of moneys with the Escrow
Agent or Registrar, as paying agent,
on or prior to the redemption date in

1754

December 3, 2014
an amount sufficient to pay the
redemption price of the Refunding
Bonds that are to be redeemed.
(e) Payment of Redeemed Refunding Bonds. Notice having been mailed
in the manner provided in the preceding paragraph, and moneys having
been deposited by the City with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying
agent, in an amount sufficient to pay
the redemption price, the Refunding
Bonds and portions thereof called for
redemption shall become due and
payable on the redemption date, and,
upon presentation and surrender at
the place or places specified in that
notice, shall be paid. If money for the
redemption of all of the Refunding
Bonds and portions thereof to be
redeemed, including interest accrued
to the redemption date, is held by the
Registrar on the redemption date,
and, if notice of redemption has been
deposited in the mail, then from and
after the redemption date those
Refunding Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption shall cease to
bear interest and no longer shall be
considered to be outstanding. If that
money shall not be so available on the
redemption date, or that notice shall
not have been deposited in the mail,
those Refunding Bonds and portions
thereof shall continue to bear interest, until they are paid, at the same
rate as they would have borne had
they not been called for redemption.
All money held by the Registrar for
the redemption of particular Refunding Bonds shall be held in trust for
the account of the registered owners
and shall be paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender
of those Refunding Bonds.
The debt charges on the Refunding
Bonds shall be payable in lawful
money of the United States of America without deduction for the services
of the Registrar or Escrow Agent as
paying agent. Principal shall be
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Refunding
Bonds at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar. Interest on a
Refunding Bond shall be paid on each
Interest Payment Date by check or
draft mailed to the person in whose
name the Refunding Bond was registered, and to that person’s address
appearing, on the Register (as
defined in Section 3) at the close of
business on the date provided in the
Registrar Agreement authorized in
Section 3 (the “Record Date”).
Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond Ordinance,
so long as the Refunding Bonds are
held by a Depository in a book entry
system (as described in Section 3),
debt charges on the Refunding Bonds
will be payable in lawful money of
the United States by wire transfer to
the Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance. The General Bond Ordinance, except for the third paragraph
of Section 13(a) (pertaining generally to an adjustment of the interest
rate in an event of default) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 (pertaining generally to the periods during
which the City is not required to make
any transfers or exchanges of
Refunding Bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), will apply
to the Refunding Bonds. Except for
those provisions, the General Bond
Ordinance is included as a part of this

December 3, 2014
Ordinance as fully as if restated in
this Ordinance. Words and terms not
otherwise defined in this Ordinance
shall have the same meaning as set
forth in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Refunding Bonds; Exchange and
Transfer of the Refunding Bonds;
Paying Agents. The Refunding Bonds
shall express upon their faces the purpose for which they are issued and
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance. Pursuant to Section 4 of
the General Bond Ordinance, each
Refunding Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Refunding
Bonds shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance, and, consistent with Revised
Code Section 133.27 and notwithstanding Section 177.02 of the Codified Ordinances of the City, either or both of
those signatures may be a facsimile.
The Refunding Bonds shall bear the
seal of the City, which seal may be a
facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83
of the City’s Charter, the Director of
Law shall prepare the Refunding
Bonds and shall endorse thereon her
approval of the form thereof by her
manual or facsimile signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating
agent, bond registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Refunding
Bonds (the “Registrar”); provided
that the Escrow Agent shall also act
as paying agent for the Refunding
Bonds so long as the Refunding
Bonds are held in a book entry system. The Director of Finance is authorized to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Registrar
and the Escrow Agent (the “Registrar
Agreement”) approved as to form by
the Director of Law, containing terms
that are not inconsistent with this
Ordinance and not substantially
adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Registrar Agreement by the Director of Finance. Payment for the services rendered and for
reimbursement of expenses incurred
pursuant to the Registrar Agreement
shall be made from the proceeds of
the Refunding Bonds, to the extent
available, and then from other money
lawfully available and appropriated
for that purpose.
So long as any of the Refunding
Bonds remain outstanding, the City
will cause the Registrar to maintain
and keep at its principal corporate
trust office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Refunding Bonds as
provided in this Section (the “Register”). Subject to the provisions of Section 4, the person in whose name a
Refunding Bond is registered on the
Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Refunding
Bond for all purposes of this Ordinance. Payment of or on account of
the debt charges on any Refunding
Bond shall be made only to or upon
the order of that person; neither the
City nor the Registrar shall be affected by any notice to the contrary, but
the registration may be changed as
provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual to
satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the Refunding Bond,

The City Record
including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Refunding Bond may be
exchanged for Refunding Bonds of
any authorized denomination upon
presentation and surrender at the
principal corporate trust office of the
Registrar, together with a request for
exchange signed by the registered
owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to
the Registrar. A Refunding Bond may
be transferred only on the Register
upon presentation and surrender of
the Refunding Bond at the principal
corporate trust office of the Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a
form satisfactory to the Registrar.
Upon exchange or transfer the Registrar shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Refunding Bond or
Refunding Bonds of any authorized
or
denominations
denomination
requested by the owner equal in the
aggregate to the unmatured principal
amount of the Refunding Bond surrendered and bearing interest at the
same rate and maturing on the same
date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Refunding Bonds only
after the new Refunding Bonds are
signed by the authorized officers of
the City. In all cases of Refunding
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall
authenticate
and
deliver
Refunding Bonds in accordance with
the provisions of this Ordinance. The
exchange or transfer shall be without
charge to the owner, except that the
City and Registrar may make a
charge sufficient to reimburse them
for any tax or other governmental
charge required to be paid with
respect to the exchange or transfer.
The City or the Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Refunding
Bonds issued and authenticated upon
any exchange or transfer shall be
valid obligations of the City, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
Ordinance, as the Refunding Bonds
surrendered upon that exchange or
transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Refunding Bonds may be issued in
book entry form in accordance with
the provisions of this Section. As used
in this Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of beneficial interests in Refunding Bonds
and the principal of and interest on
the Refunding Bonds may be transferred only through a book entry, and
(ii) physical Refunding Bond certificates in fully registered form are
issued by the City only to a Depository or its nominee as registered owner,
with the Refunding Bonds “immobilized” in the custody of the Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the record that
identifies the owners of beneficial
interests in those Refunding Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and

1755

7
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited
purpose trust company), New York,
New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers,
banks and trust companies, and clearing corporations.
The Refunding Bonds may be
issued to a Depository for use in a
book entry system and, if and as long
as a book entry system is utilized: (i)
the Refunding Bonds may be issued
in the form of a single, fully registered Refunding Bond representing
each maturity and registered in the
name of the Depository or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository;
(ii) the beneficial owners in book
entry form shall have no right to
receive Refunding Bonds in the form
of physical securities or certificates;
(iii) ownership of beneficial interests
in book entry form shall be shown by
book entry on the system maintained
and operated by the Depository and
its Participants, and transfers of the
ownership of beneficial interests
shall be made only by book entry by
the Depository and its Participants;
and (iv) the Refunding Bonds as such
shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for transfer to another
Depository or to another nominee of a
Depository, without further action by
the City.
If any Depository determines not to
continue to act as a Depository for the
Refunding Bonds for use in a book
entry system, the Director of Finance
may attempt to establish a securities
depository/book entry relationship
with another qualified Depository. If
the Director of Finance does not or is
unable to do so, the Registrar, after
making provision for notification of
the beneficial owners by the then
Depository and any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit
withdrawal of the Refunding Bonds
from the Depository, and the Trustee
and Registrar shall authenticate and
deliver Refunding Bond certificates
in registered form to the assigns of
the Depository or its nominee, all at
the cost and expense (including any
costs of printing), if the event is not
the result of City action or inaction, of
those
persons
requesting
such
issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to the
extent necessary or required to enter
into any agreements determined necessary in connection with the book
entry system for the Refunding
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger the
funds or securities of the City and
after the approval of the form of any
such agreement by the Director of
Law.
Section 4. Sale of Refunding Bonds.
The Refunding Bonds shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Refunding Bonds and

8
have been selected by the Director of
Finance based on an evaluation of the
qualifications of those firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Refunding Bonds shall be
awarded to the Original Purchaser in
the Certificate of Award which shall
specify the final terms of the Refunding Bonds in accordance with law, the
provisions of this Ordinance, the written advice of a financial advisor
retained under authority of Section 13
and the Original Purchaser’s offer to
purchase the Refunding Bonds,
including: the principal amount of the
Refunding Bonds, the purchase price
(which shall be not less than 97% of
the principal amount of the Refunding Bonds plus any accrued interest
to their date of delivery), interest rate
or rates, the amounts and years in
which principal installments are
payable (at stated maturity or pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements),
the
Interest Payment Dates and the date
of the Refunding Bonds (if different
from those set forth in Section 2), and
any other matters required in this
Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, Director of
Finance, Director of Law, Clerk of
Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each of them
is, authorized to take such actions as
are necessary, appropriate and in the
best interest of the City to establish
the terms and requirements for delivery of the Refunding Bonds and to
make such arrangements as are necessary with the Original Purchaser in
order to establish the date, location,
procedure, and conditions for the
delivery of the Refunding Bonds to
the Original Purchaser, to give all
appropriate notices and certificates,
to cause a true transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of
the Refunding Bonds to be delivered
to the Original Purchaser, to sign any
transcript
certificates,
financial
statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take
all steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Refunding Bonds. The
Director of Finance is further authorized to sign and deliver on behalf of
the City a bond purchase agreement
between the City and the Original
Purchaser (the “Bond Purchase
Agreement”), approved as to form by
the Director of Law, setting forth the
terms and conditions on which the
City agrees to sell the Refunding
Bonds and the Original Purchaser
agrees to buy the Refunding Bonds,
which shall be consistent with this
Ordinance, not substantially adverse
to the City, and approved by the Director of Finance and the Director of
Law on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Bond Purchase
Agreement or amendments to the
Bond Purchase Agreement by the
Director of Finance. It is determined
that the terms of the Refunding
Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance
and as may be provided in or pursuant
to the Certificate of Award, are in the
best interest of the City and in compliance with all legal requirements.
If, in the judgment of the Director
of Finance, a disclosure document in
the form of an Official Statement is
appropriate or necessary in connec-

The City Record
tion with the original issuance of the
Refunding Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare or
cause to be prepared on behalf of the
City an Official Statement and any
necessary supplements and to authorize the use and distribution of that
Official Statement and any supplements. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign on behalf of the
City that Official Statement and any
supplements. The Director of Finance
is authorized to sign and deliver, on
behalf of the City, such certificates in
connection with the accuracy of the
Official Statement and any supplements as may, in the Director’s judgment, be necessary or appropriate.
The Director of Finance is also authorized to determine and certify on
behalf of the City that such disclosure
document is “deemed final” by the
City within the meaning of Securities
and Exchange Commission Rule 15c212 (the “SEC Rule”). The Director of
Finance is authorized to contract for
services for the production and distribution of preliminary and final official statements, including by printed
and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Refunding Bonds, the City agrees,
in accordance with, and as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Refunding Bonds under the SEC Rule,
to provide or cause to be provided
such financial information and operating data and notices, in such manner, as may be required for purposes
of the SEC Rule. In order to describe
and specify certain terms of the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare or
cause to be prepared, and to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf of
the City, a continuing disclosure
agreement or certificate, which shall
constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Refunding Bonds in
accordance with the SEC Rule. The
performance of that Agreement shall
be subject to the availability of funds
and their annual appropriation to
meet costs the City would be required
to incur to perform it. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Refunding
Bonds promptly when and as the
same falls due, and also to provide for
the discharge of the Refunding Bonds
at maturity, there shall be and is
levied on all the taxable property in
the City, in addition to all other taxes,
a direct tax annually during the period the Refunding Bonds are outstanding, in an amount sufficient to provide for the payment of that interest,
when and as the same shall fall due,
and also to discharge the principal of
the Refunding Bonds at maturity,
which tax shall not be less than the
interest
and
sinking
fund
tax
required by Section 11 of Article XII
of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is ordered computed, certified, levied and extended

1756

December 3, 2014
upon the tax duplicate and collected
by the same officers, in the same manner and at the same time that taxes
for general purposes for each of those
years are certified, extended and collected. The tax shall be placed before
and in preference to all other items
and for the full amount thereof. The
funds derived from those tax levies
shall be placed in the Unvoted Tax
Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund as required by the General Bond Ordinance and those funds,
together with the interest collected on
them shall be irrevocably pledged for
the payment of principal of and interest on the Refunding Bonds when and
as the same fall due; provided, however, that, subject to the provisions of
Section 8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in each year to the extent that
revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the
Refunding Bonds and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount of
such tax shall be reduced by the
amount of such revenues so available
and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the City
will appropriate annually from the
proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt charges
for the Refunding Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds;
Notice of Redemption of Refunding
Bonds. Pursuant to Revised Code Section 133.34, the General Bond Ordinance and this Ordinance, the proceeds of the Refunding Bonds to be
applied to the refunding of the
Refunded Bonds shall be deposited in
a separate bank account within the
Unvoted Refunding Bond and Note
Redemption Account of the Sinking
Fund held by The Huntington National Bank, Cleveland, Ohio, as Escrow
Agent, in accordance with Section
179.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
the City and the Escrow Agreement
described below, and shall be applied
to the payment of debt service
charges on the Refunding Bonds from
and after the date of issuance of the
Refunding Bonds to and including
their respective maturity or prior
redemption dates. The amount to be
deposited in the Escrow Fund shall be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance in the Certificate of Award
and shall be the amount necessary,
together with money in the Unvoted
Tax Supported Obligations Account
of the Sinking Fund available for the
purpose, to provide for the refunding
of the Refunded Bonds. Any transfer
to the Escrow Fund of any money currently on deposit in the Unvoted Tax
Supported Obligations Account and
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be available for payment
of the Refunding Bonds, is authorized
by this Ordinance.
Money deposited in the Escrow
Fund shall be (a) held in cash or (b)
invested in direct obligations of the
United States of America that mature
or are subject to redemption by and at
the option of the holder, in amounts
sufficient, together with any uninvested cash in the Escrow Fund but
without further investment or reinvestment, for the payment of the principal of, and any redemption premium

December 3, 2014
and interest on, the Refunded Bonds
as provided in the Escrow Agreement.
Pursuant to the respective Ordinances authorizing the Refunded
Bonds, Section 133.34 of the Revised
Code and this Ordinance, money
deposited in the Escrow Fund, and
the investment income thereon, are
pledged to the payment of the Refunded Bonds.
Pursuant to Revised Code Chapter
133 and this Ordinance, and notwithstanding Chapter 179 of the Codified
Ordinances, any accrued interest
received from the sale of the Refunding Bonds and any original issue premium in excess of the amount deposited with the Escrow Agent under the
Escrow Agreement to accomplish the
refunding of the Refunded Bonds
shall be deposited in the Unvoted Tax
Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund to be applied to the payment of interest on the Refunding
Bonds. The proceeds of the Refunding
Bonds to be applied to pay costs of
any Credit Support Instruments
obtained pursuant to Section 12 shall
be paid to the provider or providers of
those Credit Support Instruments.
The proceeds of the Refunding Bonds
to be used to pay costs of issuing the
Refunding Bonds and refunding the
Refunded Bonds shall be deposited
with the Registrar in a separate
account under the Registrar Agreement pending their application to the
payment of such costs.
The Director of Finance is authorized to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the Issuer, an agreement (the “Escrow Agreement”)
between the City and the Escrow
Agent, providing for the investment
and holding in escrow of the proceeds
of the Refunding Bonds to be applied
to the refunding of the Refunded
Bonds and for the application of the
moneys derived from such investments, in accordance with the General Bond Ordinance and this Ordinance
and as otherwise directed by law.
Notice of the advance refunding of
any of the Refunded Bonds and any
direction for the redemption of
Refunded Bonds prior to stated maturity shall be given in accordance with
the terms of the Refunded Bonds and
as further provided in the Escrow
Agreement. The Refunded Bonds
shall be retired at stated maturity or
redeemed prior to maturity as provided in the Certificate of Award and in
accordance with the ordinance authorizing the respective Refunded Bonds
and the Escrow Agreement. The
Director of Finance shall provide for
the payment of the services rendered
and for reimbursement of expenses
incurred pursuant to the Escrow
Agreement from money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose. The
Director of Finance shall obtain the
services of an independent accounting firm of national reputation to provide a verification report as to the
adequacy of the escrow fund to pay
the Refunded Bonds on the dates set
forth in the Escrow Agreement. The
Director of Finance and other appropriate City officials shall execute all
documents and take all other actions
necessary or appropriate on the part
of the City to effect the refunding of
the Refunded Bonds in accordance
with the General Bond Ordinance and
this Ordinance and as otherwise
directed by law, and to cause the
Refunded Bonds to be deemed paid
and discharged.

The City Record
If U.S. Treasury Securities State
and Local Government Series are to
be purchased for the Escrow Fund,
the Escrow Agent is authorized to
file, on behalf of the City, subscriptions for the purchase and issuance of
those Securities. If those Securities
are not timely available for purchase,
or if in the judgment of the Director of
Finance, an open-market purchase of
direct obligations of the United States
of America for the Escrow Fund is in
the best interest of and financially
advantageous to the City, the Director of Finance may purchase and
deliver those obligations, engage the
services of a bidding agent or similar
entity for the purpose of facilitating
the bidding, purchase and delivery of
such obligations for, and any related
structuring of, the Escrow Fund, execute such instruments as are deemed
necessary to engage such services for
such purpose, and provide further for
the payment of the cost of obtaining
such services from the proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds to the extent available and otherwise from any other
funds lawfully available and that are
appropriated or shall be appropriated
for that purpose.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Refunding Bonds are secured by a
pledge and lien on a parity with the
pledges and liens authorized by the
General Bond Ordinance and, in addition to the taxes and revenues specifically pledged pursuant to this Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance and the other covenants, terms
and agreements provided hereunder
and in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Refunding Bonds,
the City hereby determines, declares,
warrants and covenants that the
Refunding Bonds are general obligations of the City and that the full faith
and credit of the City are hereby
pledged for the payment of the principal of and interest on the Refunding
Bonds in accordance with the laws
and Constitution of the State of Ohio,
this Ordinance and the General Bond
Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid and
discharged
all
the
outstanding
Refunding Bonds, or there shall otherwise be paid to the holders of the
outstanding Refunding Bonds all
debt charges due or to become due
thereon, and provision shall also be
made for paying all other sums
payable hereunder, then and in that
event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of
further effect, and the covenants,
agreements and other obligations of
the City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the request
of the City execute and deliver to the
City such instruments in writing as
shall discharge the lien hereof and
enter on the record such discharge of
the lien and such other instruments as
may be reasonably required by the
City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Refunding
Bonds.
Outstanding
Refunding Bonds shall be deemed to
have been paid and discharged within
the meaning of this Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a)
hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or

1757

9
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold in
special accounts or sub-accounts, in
trust for and irrevocably committed
solely thereto, direct obligations of
the United States certified by an independent public accounting firm of
national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest, without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal amount
thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held in trust and
committed, except as hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient, together
with moneys referred to in (i) above,
for the payment, at their maturities or
redemption dates, of all debt charges
on the Refunding Bonds to their date
of maturity or redemption, as the case
may be, or if default in such payment
shall have occurred on such date then
to the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Refunding
Bonds are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have been
duly made for the giving of such
notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with the
provisions of this Section shall be
invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United States
of America maturing, or redeemable
at the option of the holder, at times
and in amounts sufficient to meet
payment of debt charges on the
Refunding Bonds, as directed by the
Director of Finance. Any income or
interest earned by, or increment to,
the investments held under this Section shall, to the extent determined
from time to time by the Escrow
Agent to be in excess of the amount
required to be held by it for the purposes of this Section, be transferred at
the time of such determination as provided in Section 17(a) of the General
Bond Ordinance for unclaimed funds
held by a Paying Agent. In the event
of nonpresentment of any Refunding
Bond as described in Section 17(a) of
the General Bond Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall
be held and paid as provided in said
Section 17(a) for unclaimed funds
held by a Paying Agent.
Section 9. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City that are inconsistent with the provisions of this
Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance shall not apply to the Refunding Bonds authorized herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance
are fully applicable to the Refunding
Bonds authorized herein, and nothing
in this Ordinance shall be deemed to
alter or restrict such full application
of the General Bond Ordinance,
except for the exclusion from application to the Refunding Bonds of the
provisions of the third paragraph of
Section 13(a) and the third paragraph
of Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance pursuant to Section 2 of this
Ordinance.
Section 10. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are for
convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections of
this Ordinance.
Section 11. Federal Tax Considerations. The City covenants that it will
use, and will restrict the use and
investment of, the proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds in such manner and

10
to such extent as may be necessary so
that (a) the Refunding Bonds will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds
or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141
or 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the Code) or (ii) be
treated other than as bonds to which
Section 103(a) of the Code applies,
and (b) the interest thereon will not
be an item of tax preference under
Section 57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that (a)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Refunding Bonds
to be and to remain excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes (b) it will not take or authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance (i) apply the proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing (ii)
restrict the yield on investment property acquired with those proceeds
(iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government (iv)
maintain books and records and make
calculations and reports, and (v)
refrain from certain uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of that
interest under the Code.
Each covenant made in this section
with respect to the Refunding Bonds
is also made with respect to all issues
any portion of the debt service on
which is paid from proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds (and, if different,
the original issue and any refunding
issues in a series of refundings), to
the extent such compliance is necessary to assure exclusion of interest on
the Refunding Bonds from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, and the officers identified above
are authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take with
respect to the Refunding Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the fiscal officer, or any other officer of the
for
City
having
responsibility
issuance of the Refunding Bonds is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Refunding Bonds as the
City is permitted or required to make
or give under the federal income tax
laws, including, without limitation
thereto, any of the elections provided
for in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the
Code or available under Section 148 of
the Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Refunding Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing rebate amounts or payments or penalties, or making payments of special amounts in lieu of
making computations to determine,
or paying, excess earnings as rebate,
or obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer,
which action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer (b) to take any
and all other actions, make or obtain
calculations, make payments, and
make or give reports, covenants and
certifications of and on behalf of the
City, as may be appropriate to assure
the exclusion of interest from gross

The City Record
income and the intended tax status of
the Refunding Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Refunding Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City regarding the amount and use of all the proceeds of the Refunding Bonds, the
facts, circumstances and estimates on
which they are based, and other facts
and circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on and the
tax status of the Refunding Bonds.
Section 12. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If, in the judgment of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
the filing of an application for a rating on one or more Series of Refunding Bonds by one or more nationally
recognized rating agencies is in the
best interests of the City, the Director
of Finance is authorized to prepare
and submit those applications and to
provide to each such agency such
information as may be required for
the purpose. The Director of Finance
is authorized to contract for one or
more Credit Support Instruments for
any Series of Refunding Bonds or designated portions thereof if the Director determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
the Credit Support Instruments will
result in debt service savings to the
City. As used in this section,
“Credit Support Instrument” means an
insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, or other instrument used to
enhance or provide for the security of
Refunding Bonds. The cost of obtaining each rating and the cost of obtaining each Credit Support Instrument,
except to the extent paid by the Original Purchasers in accordance with
the Bond Purchase Agreement, shall
be paid from the proceeds of Refunding Bonds or funds appropriated for
that purpose.
Section 13. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the underwriters and any other party
interested in the transaction.
Section 14. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and that all
deliberations of this Council and any
of its committees that resulted in
these formal actions were held in
meetings open to the public, in compliance with all legal requirements,
including, without limitation, Section
121.22 of the Revised Code.
Section 15. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Refunding Bonds in order to
make them legal, valid and binding
obligations of the City have happened, been done and been performed
in regular and due form as required
by law; and that no limitation of
indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been

1758

December 3, 2014
exceeded in the issuance of the
Refunding Bonds. It is further found
and determined, and is represented
and recited, that the provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of the
Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council
have been fully complied with and
this Ordinance was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 16. Delivery to County. The
Director of Finance is directed to forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of Award
for the Refunding Bonds to the Cuyahoga County Fiscal Officer and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 17. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is declared to be an
independent section or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other
evidence of legislative intent, it is
declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such section or
part of a section or any provision
thereof, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person
or circumstance, other than those as
to which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 18. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of
indebtedness, other obligations, trust
indentures, trust agreements, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City and for which
consideration was duly received by
the City prior to the passage of this
Ordinance or the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 19. Sunset of Authorization.
The authority granted by this Ordinance for the issuance and sale of
Refunding Bonds shall expire three
years from the effective date of this
Ordinance. If a preliminary official
statement
with
respect
to
the
issuance of a series of Refunding
Bonds is distributed under the authority of this Ordinance at any time within the three-year period following its
effective date, then the authority
granted by this Ordinance shall not
expire as to that series of Refunding
Bonds. The Director of Finance shall
notify the Chairman of the Finance
Committee and the Clerk of this Council of the initiation of the issuance of
any Refunding Bonds under the
authority of this Ordinance.
Section 20. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,

December 3, 2014
property, health and safety of the City
by providing for the refunding of the
Refunded Bonds, which will enable
the City to obtain debt service savings, and for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
members elected to Council, it shall
take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1592-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of one or
more series of Subordinate Lien
Income Tax Refunding Bonds to
refund currently outstanding general
obligation and subordinate lien
income tax bonds of the City to obtain
debt service savings or restructure
the City’s outstanding debt and authorizing and approving related matters.
Whereas, the City has from time to
time issued general obligation bonds
in various series that are currently
outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $268,445,000 and issued
subordinate lien income tax bonds in
various series and subseries that are
currently outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $188,335,000;
and
Whereas, this Council has determined to authorize the City to issue
one or more series of Refunding
Bonds (as defined in Section 1) for the
purpose of obtaining debt service savings or restructuring the City’s outstanding debt with respect to all currently outstanding general obligation
and subordinate lien income tax
bonds of the City; and
Whereas, the Refunding Bonds
shall be payable from and secured by
income tax revenues of the City
remaining after deposits required
under the General Bond Ordinance
(as defined in Section 2) are made to
the escrow agent for the City’s general obligation bonds; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has previously certified to this Council that
the estimated life or usefulness of
each of the Projects (as defined
below) was, at the time the original
Bonds for each Project were issued, at
least five years, and that the maximum maturity of that portion of the
Refunding Bonds to be allocated to
each of the Projects financed by the
original Bonds to be refunded is
December 31 of the years determined
by the Director of Finance for each
Project based on each Project’s estimated life or usefulness; and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of Refunding Bonds is necessary to enable the City to take
advantage of favorable market conditions on a timely basis to obtain debt
service savings or to restructure its
outstanding debt service obligations
and thereby to protect and preserve
the credit of the City, and as a result,
this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the
immediate preservation of the public
peace, property, health and safety,
and for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. Purpose. One or more
series of subordinate lien income tax
bonds of the City (“Refunding
Bonds”) are authorized to be issued
for the purpose of refunding one or
more series of the City’s outstanding
general obligation bonds and subordinate lien income tax bonds, or designated maturities thereof, issued to
provide funds to pay costs of various
projects of the City (the “Projects”)
and identified in the Certificate of
Award authorized in Section 4
(“Refunded Bonds”), including the
payment of any expenses relating to
the refunding of the Refunded Bonds
and the issuance of the Refunding
Bonds, including any financing costs
within the meaning of Revised Code
Section 133.01(K), provided that
either the aggregate net present
value debt service savings resulting
from the refunding of the Refunded
Bonds is not less than 3% or the
Refunding Bonds are issued to
restructure outstanding debt of the
City, as determined by the Director of
Finance and specified in the Certificate of Award, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor to be in
the best interest of the City.
The aggregate principal amount of
each respective series of Refunding
Bonds to be issued under this Ordinance shall be in an amount determined by the Director of Finance and
set forth in the Certificate of Award
as the amount required to be issued,
taking into account any original
issue discount and/or original issue
premium on the sale of the Refunding
Bonds, in order to refund the Refunded Bonds and pay any expenses relating to the refunding of the Refunded
Bonds and the issuance of the Refunding Bonds. The Refunding Bonds may
be issued in one or more separate
series, each bearing a distinctive designation, provided that the Refunding Bonds of each series satisfy the
requirements of this Ordinance and
either the aggregate net present
value debt service savings to the City
resulting from each series of Refunding Bonds is not less than three 3% or
the Refunding Bonds are issued to
restructure outstanding debt of the
City, as determined to be necessary
by the Director of Finance and specified in the Certificate of Award, based
on the written advice of a Financial
Advisor to be in the best interests of
the City. Separate series of Refunding
Bonds may be issued at the same or
different times. The Refunding Bonds
of each series shall be designated as
provided in the applicable Certificate
of Award. A separate Certificate of
Award may be delivered for each
series.
Section 2. Authority, Security and
Source of Payment. The Refunding
Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the
Ohio Constitution, Chapter 133 of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Charter of the
City, and this Ordinance for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Refunding Bonds shall be payable from and
secured by the income tax revenues of
the City on a basis subordinate to the
security given to the General Obligation Bonds of the City (“General
Obligation Bonds”) under Ordinance
No. 1749-80 passed by the Council on
October 8, 1980, as amended by Ordinance No. 1112-83 passed by the Council on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed by the Council on June
10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further
be amended from time to time in

1759

11
accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond Ordinance”). The debt service on the
Refunding Bonds shall be payable
from income tax collections remaining after depositing with the escrow
agent under the General Bond Ordinance the amount required for the
payment of debt service on the City’s
General Obligation Bonds issued and
outstanding, from time to time, under
the General Bond Ordinance. The
Refunding Bonds shall be issued and
secured under the terms of the Trust
Indenture, dated as of April 1, 2008,
between the City and U.S. Bank
National Association, as trustee (the
“Trustee”), as amended by Section 6.1
of the Second Supplemental Trust
Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2010,
between the City and the Trustee
(together, the “Indenture”). The
Indenture currently secures five
series of Subordinate Lien Income
Tax Bonds issued on May 1, 2008 (collectively, the “Series 2008 Bonds”),
four series of Subordinate Lien
Income Tax Bonds issued on June 23,
2010 (collectively, the “Series 2010
Bonds”), one series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
November 29, 2012 (the “Series 2012
Bonds”), three series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
May 30, 2013 (collectively, the “Series
2013 Bonds”), three series of Subordinate Lien Income Tax Bonds issued
on February 11, 2014 (collectively, the
“Series 2014A Bonds”), and three
series of Subordinate Lien Income
Tax Bonds issued on June 11, 2014
(collectively,
the
“Series
2014B
Bonds”) and permits the issuance of
additional bonds, from time to time,
subject to certain restrictions. The
Series 2008 Bonds, the Series 2010
Bonds, the Series 2012 Bonds, the
Series 2013 Bonds, the Series 2014A
Bonds, the Series 2014B Bonds, the
Refunding Bonds and any additional
bonds issued under the Indenture are
collectively referred to in this Ordinance as the “Bonds.”
Section 3. Terms. The Refunding
Bonds may be issued in one or more
series or subseries. The Refunding
Bonds of each series shall be issued in
one lot as fully registered bonds in
denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Refunding
Bonds may be delivered only in bookentry form, and if so delivered, shall
be registered in the name of the
Depository (as defined in the Indenture) or its nominee, as registered
owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository, and shall not
be transferable or exchangeable
(except for transfer to another Depository or its nominee) without further
action by the City pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture (as identified in
Section 8). The Refunding Bonds
shall bear the designation and be
numbered as determined by the Director of Finance and specified in the
Certificate of Award. The Refunding
Bonds shall be signed by the officials
of the City and in the manner set forth
in the Indenture.
The Refunding Bonds shall be
dated the date and shall bear interest
at the rate or rates per year specified
in the Certificate of Award, provided
the weighted average of such rates
per series of Refunding Bonds (taking into account the principal amount
and maturity of each Refunding Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed 6% per year. Interest on the

12
Refunding Bonds shall be payable
when due, or until the principal
amount is paid, semiannually as specified in the Certificate of Award as
the dates on which interest on the
Refunding Bonds shall be payable
(the “Interest Payment Dates”),
beginning on the date specified in the
Certificate of Award as the first Interest Payment Date.
The Refunding Bonds shall mature
in the years and principal amounts as
shall be permitted by law and determined by the Director of Finance and
specified in the Certificate of Award,
based on (i) the written advice of a
Financial Advisor to be in the best
interests of the City given market
conditions at the time the Refunding
Bonds are sold and (ii) the objectives
of the plan of refunding to either
obtain aggregate net present value
debt service savings of not less than
three 3% or restructure outstanding
debt of the City.
The Director of Finance also shall
determine and certify, on or prior to
the date of delivery of the Refunding
Bonds to the Original Purchaser, that
portion of the aggregate principal
amount of the Refunding Bonds that
is allocable to each Project, and the
principal amount of Refunding Bonds
allocated to each Project that shall be
payable at stated maturity or pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(as
defined below) on the applicable principal payment dates; provided, that
(i) the aggregate principal amount of
the Refunding Bonds allocable to a
Project shall be determined by the
Director of Finance on a pro rata
basis by reference to the respective
amount of funds that is required for
the refunding of the Refunded Bonds
that are allocable to that Project, taking into account any funds other than
the proceeds of the Refunding Bonds
that are available and appropriated
for that purpose, and (ii) no portion of
the aggregate principal amount of
Refunding Bonds allocated to a Project shall be payable later than the
maximum maturity for that portion of
the Refunding Bonds as certified by
the Director of Finance.
The Refunding Bonds stated to
mature in any year may be issued as
term bonds (the “Term Refunding
Bonds”), payable pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements as defined and further
described below. The Director of
Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award whether any of the
Refunding Bonds shall be issued as
Term Refunding Bonds, any dates
(the “Mandatory Redemption Dates”)
on which the principal amount of the
Term Refunding Bonds shall be
payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund installments rather than at
stated maturity and the amount of
principal to be paid on each Mandatory Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Refunding Bonds shall be subject to redemption prior to stated
maturity as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Refunding
Bonds are issued as Term Refunding
Bonds, the Term Refunding Bonds
shall be subject to mandatory sinking
fund redemption and be redeemed
pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirements, at a
redemption price of 100% of the principal amount redeemed, plus interest

The City Record
accrued to the redemption date, on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to be
deposited with the Escrow Agent, currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of and
interest on any Term Refunding
Bonds shall include amounts sufficient to redeem on the Mandatory
Redemption Dates the principal
amount of Term Refunding Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided in
the Supplemental Indenture).
(b) Optional Redemption. The
Refunding Bonds may be subject to
redemption prior to maturity by and
at the option of the City, in whole or in
part on any date, in whole multiples
of $5,000, on the optional redemption
dates and at the redemption prices
specified in the Certificate of Award,
plus, in each case, accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that
it is in the best interests of the City
(i) for some or all of the Refunding
Bonds not to be callable prior to their
stated maturity, and (ii) for a premium to be payable on the redemption of
any Refunding Bonds calculated in a
manner to make the bondholder
whole for the loss of the investment or
calculated as a percentage in excess
of 100% of the principal amount
redeemed.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the City may
have the option to purchase any
Refunding Bond which is redeemable
by optional redemption at a purchase
price not less than the redemption
price that would be payable if that
Refunding Bond were called for
optional redemption on the date of the
proposed purchase. That election
shall be exercised as provided in the
Supplemental Indenture.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the Refunding
Bonds may be secured by a Debt Service Reserve Fund to be held by the
Trustee under the Indenture. The
principal amount of the Refunding
Bonds may include provision for funding the Debt Service Reserve Fund
from the proceeds of the Refunding
Bonds, subject to compliance with
applicable federal tax laws.
Section 4. Sale of Refunding Bonds.
The Refunding Bonds shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Refunding Bonds and
have been selected by the Director of
Finance based on an evaluation of the
qualifications of those firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Refunding Bonds shall be
awarded to the Original Purchaser in
the Certificate of Award which shall
specify the final terms of the Refunding Bonds in accordance with law, the
provisions of this Ordinance, the written advice of a financial advisor
retained under authority of Section 12
and the Original Purchaser’s offer to
purchase the Refunding Bonds,
including: the principal amount of the
Refunding Bonds, the purchase price
(which shall be not less than 97% of

1760

December 3, 2014
the principal amount of the Refunding Bonds plus any accrued interest
to their date of delivery), interest rate
or rates, the amounts and years in
which principal installments are
payable (at stated maturity or pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements),
the
Interest Payment Dates and the date
of the Refunding Bonds (if different
from those set forth in Section 3), and
any other matters required in this
Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, Director of
Finance, Director of Law, Clerk of
Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each of them
is, authorized to take such actions as
are necessary, appropriate and in the
best interest of the City to establish
the terms and requirements for delivery of the Refunding Bonds and to
make such arrangements as are necessary with the Original Purchaser in
order to establish the date, location,
procedure, and conditions for the
delivery of the Refunding Bonds to
the Original Purchaser, to give all
appropriate notices and certificates,
to cause a true transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of
the Refunding Bonds to be delivered
to the Original Purchaser, to sign any
transcript
certificates,
financial
statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take
all steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Refunding Bonds. The
Director of Finance is further authorized to sign and deliver on behalf of
the City a bond purchase agreement
between the City and the Original
Purchaser (the “Bond Purchase
Agreement”), approved as to form by
the Director of Law, setting forth the
terms and conditions on which the
City agrees to sell the Refunding
Bonds and the Original Purchaser
agrees to buy the Refunding Bonds,
which shall be consistent with this
Ordinance and the Indenture, that are
not substantially adverse to the City,
and approved by the Director of
Finance and the Director of Law on
behalf of the City, all of which shall
be conclusively evidenced by the
signing of the Bond Purchase Agreement or amendments to the Bond Purchase Agreement by the Director of
Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Refunding Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance and as may be
provided in or pursuant to the Certificate of Award, the Indenture and the
Supplemental Indenture, are in the
best interest of the City and in compliance with all legal requirements.
Section 5. Escrow Agreement. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver, in the name and on
behalf of the Issuer, an agreement
(the “Escrow Agreement”) between
the City and the Escrow Agent, providing for the investment and holding
in escrow of the proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds to be applied to the
refunding of the Refunded Bonds and
for the application of the moneys
derived from such investments, in
accordance with the General Bond
Ordinance and this Ordinance and as
otherwise directed by law. Notice of
the advance refunding of any of the
Refunded Bonds and any direction for
the redemption of Refunded Bonds
prior to stated maturity shall be given

December 3, 2014
in accordance with the terms of the
Refunded Bonds and as further provided in the Escrow Agreement. The
Refunded Bonds shall be retired at
stated maturity or redeemed prior to
maturity as provided in the Certificate of Award and in accordance with
the ordinance authorizing the respective Refunded Bonds and the Escrow
Agreement. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant
to the Escrow Agreement from money
lawfully available and appropriated
or to be appropriated for that purpose.
The Director of Finance shall obtain
the services of an independent
accounting firm of national reputation to provide a verification report as
to the adequacy of the escrow fund to
pay the Refunded Bonds on the dates
set forth in the Escrow Agreement.
The Director of Finance and other
appropriate City officials shall execute all documents and take all other
actions necessary or appropriate on
the part of the City to effect the
refunding of the Refunded Bonds in
accordance with the General Bond
Ordinance and this Ordinance and as
otherwise directed by law, and to
cause the Refunded Bonds to be
deemed paid and discharged.
If U.S. Treasury Securities State
and Local Government Series are to
be purchased for the Escrow Fund,
the Escrow Agent is authorized to
file, on behalf of the City, subscriptions for the purchase and issuance of
those Securities. If those Securities
are not timely available for purchase,
or if in the judgment of the Director of
Finance, an open-market purchase of
direct obligations of the United States
of America for the Escrow Fund is in
the best interest of and financially
advantageous to the City, the Director of Finance may purchase and
deliver those obligations, engage the
services of a bidding agent or similar
entity for the purpose of facilitating
the bidding, purchase and delivery of
such obligations for, and any related
structuring of, the Escrow Fund, execute such instruments as are deemed
necessary to engage such services for
such purpose, and provide further for
the payment of the cost of obtaining
such services from the proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds to the extent available and otherwise from any other
funds lawfully available and that are
appropriated or shall be appropriated
for that purpose.
Section 6. Pledge and Covenant to
Maintain Income Tax. So long as
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City pledges the
municipal income taxes of the City
and grants a lien thereon, subordinate to the lien granted in the General Bond Ordinance as security for the
General Obligation Bonds of the City
issued and outstanding under the
General Bond Ordinance, to the full
extent required to meet debt charges
payable on the Bonds issued and outstanding, from time to time, under the
Indenture. The City covenants to
annually
sufficient
appropriate
amounts from the income taxes to pay
all debt charges on the General Obligation Bonds, the Bonds outstanding
under the Indenture, any Parity
Obligations and the Unrestricted
Income Tax Obligations (each as
defined in the Indenture). The City
further covenants that so long as any
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City shall not repeal or

The City Record
amend, or suffer the repeal of, any
ordinance for the levy or collection of
its income taxes in any manner or to
such extent that the City would not be
able to meet its obligations to the
holders of the Bonds.
Section 7. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid and
discharged
all
the
outstanding
Refunding Bonds, or there shall otherwise be paid to the holders of the
outstanding Refunding Bonds all
debt charges due or to become due
thereon, and provision shall also be
made for paying all other sums
payable hereunder, then and in that
event this Ordinance (except for Section 7(b) hereof) shall cease to be of
further effect, and the covenants,
agreements and other obligations of
the City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the request
of the City execute and deliver to the
City such instruments in writing as
shall discharge the lien hereof and
enter on the record such discharge of
the lien and such other instruments as
may be reasonably required by the
City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Refunding
Bonds.
Outstanding
Refunding Bonds shall be deemed to
have been paid and discharged within
the meaning of this Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a)
hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold in
special accounts or sub-accounts, in
trust for and irrevocably committed
solely thereto, direct obligations of
the United States certified by an independent public accounting firm of
national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest, without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal amount
thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held in trust and
committed, except as hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient, together
with moneys referred to in (i) above,
for the payment, at their maturities or
redemption dates, of all debt charges
on the Refunding Bonds to their date
of maturity or redemption, as the case
may be, or if default in such payment
shall have occurred on such date then
to the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Refunding
Bonds are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have been
duly made for the giving of such
notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with the
provisions of this Section shall be
invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United States
of America maturing, or redeemable
at the option of the holder, at times
and in amounts sufficient to meet
payment of debt charges on the
Refunding Bonds, as directed by the
Director of Finance. Any income or
interest earned by, or increment to,
the investments held under this Section shall, to the extent determined
from time to time by the Escrow
Agent to be in excess of the amount
required to be held by it for the purposes of this Section, be transferred at

1761

13
the time of such determination as provided in Section 17(a) of the General
Bond Ordinance for unclaimed funds
held by a Paying Agent. In the event
of nonpresentment of any Refunding
Bond as described in Section 17(a) of
the General Bond Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall
be held and paid as provided in said
Section 17(a) for unclaimed funds
held by a Paying Agent.
Section 8. Supplemental Indenture.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a supplemental trust indenture
(the “Supplemental Indenture”), supplementing the Indenture to provide
procedures for the authentication,
registration and transfer of the
Refunding Bonds, redemption of
Refunding Bonds, payments under
any Credit Support Instrument authorized by Section 11, application of the
proceeds of the Refunding Bonds,
defeasance of the Refunding Bonds,
and other terms consistent with this
Ordinance and the Certificate of
Award and approved by the Director
of Finance as not substantially
adverse to the City. The Supplemental
Indenture shall be approved as to
form by the Director of Law. The
determination by the Director of
Finance that the provisions of the
Supplemental Indenture are not substantially adverse to the City shall be
conclusively evidenced by the Director’s signing of the Supplemental
Indenture. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law, the
Clerk of Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each
of them is, authorized to sign,
acknowledge and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, such documents, certifications and instruments
in addition to the Indenture and Supplemental Indenture as may be necessary or appropriate to issue and sell
the Refunding Bonds and to consummate the transactions authorized by
this Ordinance.
Section 9. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Refunding Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare or
cause to be prepared on behalf of the
City an Official Statement with
respect to the Refunding Bonds, as
the case may be, and any necessary
supplements and to authorize the use
and distribution of each Official
Statement and any supplements. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in her
official capacity each Official Statement and any supplements approved
by her. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver on
behalf of the City and in her official
capacity such certificates in connection with the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements
as may, in her judgment, be necessary
or appropriate. The Director of
Finance is also authorized to determine and certify on behalf of the City
that such disclosure document is
“deemed final” by the City within the
meaning of Securities and Exchange
Commission Rule 15c2-12 the “SEC
Rule.” The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract for services for
the production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.

14
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Refunding Bonds, the City agrees,
in accordance with, and as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Refunding Bonds under the SEC Rule,
to provide or cause to be provided
such financial information and operating data and notices, in such manner as may be required for purposes of
the SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that
purpose, and thereby to implement
that agreement, including provisions
for enforcement, amendment and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized to prepare, or cause to be
prepared, and to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City, a
continuing disclosure agreement or
certificate, which shall constitute the
disclosure
agreement
continuing
made by the City for the benefit of the
holders and beneficial owners of the
Refunding Bonds, as the case may be,
in accordance with the SEC Rule. The
performance of that agreement shall
be subject to the availability of funds
and their annual appropriation to
meet costs the City would be required
to incur to perform it. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 10. Federal Tax Considerations. The City covenants that it will
use, and will restrict the use and
investment of, the proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds in such manner and
to such extent as may be necessary so
that (a) the Refunding Bonds will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds
or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141
or 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the Code) or (ii) be
treated other than as bonds to which
Section 103(a) of the Code applies,
and (b) the interest thereon will not
be an item of tax preference under
Section 57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that (a)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Refunding Bonds
to be and to remain excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes (b) it will not take or authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance (i) apply the proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing (ii)
restrict the yield on investment property acquired with those proceeds
(iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government (iv)
maintain books and records and make
calculations and reports, and (v)
refrain from certain uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of that
interest under the Code.
Each covenant made in this section
with respect to the Refunding Bonds
is also made with respect to all issues
any portion of the debt service on
which is paid from proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds (and, if different,
the original issue and any refunding
issues in a series of refundings), to
the extent such compliance is necessary to assure exclusion of interest on
the Refunding Bonds from gross

The City Record
income for federal income tax purposes, and the officers identified above
are authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take with
respect to the Refunding Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the fiscal officer, or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Refunding Bonds is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Refunding Bonds as the
City is permitted or required to make
or give under the federal income tax
laws, including, without limitation
thereto, any of the elections provided
for in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the
Code or available under Section 148 of
the Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Refunding Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing rebate amounts or payments or penalties, or making payments of special amounts in lieu of
making computations to determine,
or paying, excess earnings as rebate,
or obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer,
which action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer (b) to take any
and all other actions, make or obtain
calculations, make payments, and
make or give reports, covenants and
certifications of and on behalf of the
City, as may be appropriate to assure
the exclusion of interest from gross
income and the intended tax status of
the Refunding Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Refunding Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City regarding the amount and use of all the proceeds of the Refunding Bonds, the
facts, circumstances and estimates on
which they are based, and other facts
and circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on and the
tax status of the Refunding Bonds.
Section 11. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If, in the judgment of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
the filing of an application for a rating on one or more Series of Refunding Bonds by one or more nationally
recognized rating agencies is in the
best interests of the City, the Director
of Finance is authorized to prepare
and submit those applications and to
provide to each such agency such
information as may be required for
the purpose. The Director of Finance
is authorized to contract for one or
more Credit Support Instruments for
any Series of Refunding Bonds or designated portions thereof if the Director determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
the Credit Support Instruments will
result in debt service savings to the
City. As used in this section, “Credit
Support Instrument” means an insurance policy, surety, letter of credit, or
other instrument used to enhance or
provide for the security of Refunding
Bonds. The cost of obtaining each rating and the cost of obtaining each
Credit Support Instrument, except to
the extent paid by the Original Purchasers in accordance with the Bond
Purchase Agreement, shall be paid
from the proceeds of Refunding

1762

December 3, 2014
Bonds or funds appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 12. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the underwriters and any other party
interested in the transaction.
Section 13. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and that all
deliberations of this Council and any
of its committees that resulted in
these formal actions were held in
meetings open to the public, in compliance with all legal requirements,
including, without limitation, Section
121.22 of the Revised Code.
Section 14. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Refunding Bonds in order to
make them legal, valid and binding
obligations of the City have happened, been done and been performed
in regular and due form as required
by law; and that no limitation of
indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been
exceeded in the issuance of the
Refunding Bonds. It is further found
and determined, and is represented
and recited, that the provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of the
Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council
have been fully complied with and
this Ordinance was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 15. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy of
this Ordinance and of the Certificate
of Award for the Refunding Bonds to
the County Fiscal Officer of Cuyahoga County and to secure a receipt
therefor.
Section 16. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is declared to be an
independent section or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other
evidence of legislative intent, it is
declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such section or
part of a section or any provision
thereof, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person
or circumstance, other than those as
to which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are for

The City Record

December 3, 2014
convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections of
this Ordinance.
Section 18. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of
indebtedness, other obligations, trust
indentures, trust agreements, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City and for which
consideration was duly received by
the City prior to the passage of this
Ordinance or the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 19. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City that are inconsistent with the provisions of this

15

Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance shall not apply to the Refunding Bonds authorized herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance
are fully applicable to the Refunding
Bonds authorized herein, and nothing
in this Ordinance shall be deemed to
alter or restrict such full application
of the General Bond Ordinance,
except for the exclusion from application to the Refunding Bonds of the
provisions of the third paragraph of
Section 13(a) and the third paragraph
of Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance pursuant to Section 2 of this
Ordinance.
Section 20. Sunset of Authorization.
The authority granted by this Ordinance for the issuance and sale of
Refunding Bonds shall expire three
years from the effective date of this
Ordinance. If a preliminary official
statement
with
respect
to
the
issuance of a series of Refunding
Bonds is distributed under the authority of this Ordinance at any time within the three-year period following its
effective date, then the authority
granted by this Ordinance shall not

expire as to that series of Refunding
Bonds. The Director of Finance shall
notify the Chairman of the Finance
Committee and the Clerk of this Council of the initiation of the issuance of
any Refunding Bonds under the
authority of this Ordinance.
Section 21. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing for the refunding of the
Refunded Bonds, which will enable
the City to obtain debt service savings or restructure its outstanding
debt and thereby protect and preserve
the credit of the City, and for the
usual daily operation of a municipal
department, and, provided this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of
two-thirds of all members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be in
force immediately upon its passage
and approval by the Mayor; otherwise
it shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest date
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

Ord. No. 1593-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to provide for the transfer and amendment to the General Fund appropriations in the
amount of Two Million Nine Hundred Forty Thousand ($2,940,000), Eight Hundred Thousand ($800,000) within the
Special Revenue Fund, and Ten Million Eight Hundred Fifty Thousand ($10,850,000) within the Enterprise Fund.
Whereas, in accordance with Section 41 of the Charter, the Mayor has recommended in writing the within transfer; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the daily operation of a municipal
department; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That amendment to the General Fund appropriations in the amount of Two Million Nine Hundred
Forty Thousand ($2,940,000), Eight Hundred Thousand ($800,000) within the Special Revenue Fund, and Ten Million Eight Hundred Fifty Thousand ($10,850,000) within the Enterprise Fund. as follows:
Transfer
To

Transfer
From

GENERAL FUND
GENERAL GOVERNMENT
Municipal Court - Housing Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 25,000

$ 25,000
-

Office of the Mayor
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

10,000

10,000
-

Office of Capital Projects
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

75,000

75,000
-

Civil Service Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
TOTAL GENERAL GOVERNMENT

25,000
———————
135,000
———————
———————

———————
110,000
———————
———————

DEPARTMENT OF LAW
Division of Law
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF LAW

1763

1,200,000
———————
1,200,000
———————
———————

225,000
———————
225,000
———————
———————

The City Record

16

December 3, 2014

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Public Health Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

80,000

-

Division of Health
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

-

50,000

Division of the Environment
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

50,000
10,000

-

Division of Air Quality
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

30,000
10,000
———————
180,000
———————
———————

———————
50,000
———————
———————

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Public Safety Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

250,000

-

Division of Police
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

-

1,470,000

Division of Fire
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

200,000

200,000
-

Division of Animal Control Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

90,000
———————
540,000
———————
———————

———————
1,670,000
———————
———————

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Division of Public Works Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

-

150,000

Division of Recreation
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

-

250,000

Division of Property Management
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

-

200,000

Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

250,000

185,000
-

Division of Waste Collection
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

450,000
175,000

-

Division of Traffic Engineering
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
TOTAL GENERAL FUND

10,000
———————
885,000
———————
———————

100,000
———————
885,000
———————
———————

2,940,000
———————
———————

2,940,000
———————
———————

SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Street Construction, Maintenance & Repair Fund
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
800,000
II.
Other Expenses
———————
TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
800,000
———————
———————
TOTAL SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS

800,000
———————
———————

1764

800,000
———————
800,000
———————
———————
800,000
———————
———————

The City Record

December 3, 2014

17

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Division of Public Auditorium
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

100,000
———————
100,000
———————
———————

100,000
———————
100,000
———————
———————

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
Division of Water
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

7,250,000

Division of Cleveland Public Power
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

7,250,000
-

3,500,000
———————
TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
10,750,000
———————
———————

3,500,000
———————
10,750,000
———————
———————

TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

10,850,000
———————
———————
14,590,000
———————
———————

10,850,000
———————
———————
14,590,000
———————
———————

TOTAL ALL FUNDS

Section 2. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1594-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make additional appropriations of Two Hundred Thousand ($200,000) of Enterprise
Funds; and to correctly restate funds appropriated for the use of the Sinking Fund Commission under the annual appropriation measure, Ordinance No. 180-14, passed March 24, 2014.
Whereas, there remains an unappropriated balance in the various funds, the sum of Two Hundred Thousand
($200,000) which is available for additional appropriation; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the daily operation of a municipal
department; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That there is hereby appropriated the additional revenue as set forth in the Amended Official Certificate of Estimated Resources previously unappropriated as follows:
ENTERPRISE FUND

200,000
———————
200,000

TOTAL ALL FUNDS
ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Division of Parking Facilities - Off Street Parking
II.
Other Expenses

200,000
200,000
———————
200,000
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUND

200,000
———————
———————
200,000
———————
———————

TOTAL ALL FUNDS

Section 2. That the total appropriation for the Sinking Fund Commission, under Ordinance No. 180-14, passed
March 24, 2014, is correctly restated as follows:
Sinking Fund Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

959,640
233,340
726,300

Section 3. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.

1765

The City Record

18

December 3, 2014

Ord. No. 1595-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make temporary appropriations for the current payrolls and other ordinary expenses of the City of Cleveland from the period from January 1, 2015 until the effective date of the annual appropriation ordinance for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2015.
Whereas, it is desired to postpone the passage of the annual appropriation ordinance until the amended certificate is received, based on the actual balances as the same may be determined by the Director of Finance and
the County Budget Commission; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the daily operation of a municipal
department; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. To provide for the current payrolls, sinking fund and other ordinary expenses of the City of Cleveland for the period from January 1, 2015 until the effective date of the Annual Appropriation Ordinance for the
fiscal year ending December 31, 2015, there be and there is hereby appropriated for the period from January 1,
2015 until the effective date of the Annual Appropriation Five Hundred Ninety Two Million, Five Hundred Forty
Four Thousand, Eight Hundred Sixty Nine Dollars ($592,544,869) out of taxes due the City of Cleveland and any
other revenues accrued or occurring during said period of time and said funds are respectively appropriated as
follows:
GENERAL FUND
Legislative Branch
Judicial Branch
Executive Branch
General Government
Department of Aging
Department of Human Resources
Department of Community Development (Consumer Affairs)
Department of Law
Department of Finance
Department of Public Health
Department of Public Safety
Department of Public Works
Department of Building and Housing
Department of Economic Development
Nondepartmental
Total Executive Branch

$2,362,859
$12,663,394
$4,276,520
$365,189
$893,942
$79,866
$6,282,744
$6,799,891
$2,807,993
$88,631,113
$23,388,722
$2,843,474
$458,356
$20,759,873
———————
$157,587,683
———————
———————

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$172,613,936
———————
———————

Special Revenue Funds
Internal Service Funds
Enterprise Funds
Agency Funds
Debt Service Funds

$62,808,291
$38,650,750
$288,443,907
$3,652,235
$26,375,750
———————
$592,544,869
———————
———————

TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR 2015

GENERAL FUND
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
Council and Clerk of Council
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$2,362,859
$ 1,408,150
954,709
———————
$2,362,859
———————
———————

TOTAL LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

JUDICIAL BRANCH
Municipal Court - Judicial Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 5,556,342
2,520,022

$8,076,364

Municipal Court - Clerk’s Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 2,681,223
814,771

Municipal Court - Housing Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 1,028,485
62,551

$3,495,994

$1,091,036

———————
$12,663,394
———————
———————

TOTAL JUDICIAL BRANCH

1766

December 3, 2014

The City Record

19

EXECUTIVE BRANCH
GENERAL GOVERNMENT
Office of the Mayor
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 709,715
49,823

$759,538

Office of Capital Projects
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 1,348,366
208,493

Landmarks Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 52,759
5,068

Board of Building Standards and Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 35,028
4,534

Board of Zoning Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 59,166
6,575

Civil Service Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 175,601
177,537

Community Relations Board
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 372,948
86,865

City Planning Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 422,115
72,406

Boxing and Wrestling Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

$ 1,600

Office of Equal Opportunity
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 228,033
8,659

Office of Budget & Management
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 237,329
13,900

$1,556,859

$57,827

$39,562

$65,741

$353,138

$459,813

$494,521

$1,600

$236,692

$251,229

———————
$4,276,520
———————
———————

TOTAL GENERAL GOVERNMENT

DEPARTMENT OF AGING
Department of Aging
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$365,189
$ 231,969
133,220
———————
$365,189
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF AGING

DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES
Department of Human Resources
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$893,942
$ 389,181
504,761
———————
$893,942
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES

DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Office of Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$79,866
$ 74,940
4,926

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

1767

———————
$79,866
———————
———————

20

The City Record

December 3, 2014

DEPARTMENT OF LAW
Division of Law
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$6,282,744
$ 1,861,347
4,421,397
———————
$6,282,744
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF LAW

DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
Finance Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 290,523
327,099

$617,622

Division of Accounts
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 377,308
670,964

Division of Assessments and Licenses
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 630,248
652,591

Division of Treasury
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 179,261
51,462

Division of Purchases and Supplies
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 181,523
15,610

Bureau of Internal Audit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 175,045
520,062

Division of Financial Reporting and Control
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$ 380,494
8,051

Information Systems Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 757,822
1,581,828

$1,048,272

$1,282,839

$230,723

$197,133

$695,107

$388,545

$2,339,650

———————
$6,799,891
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Public Health Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 228,634
353,477

$582,111

Division of Health
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 566,549
1,073,746

Division of Environment
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 236,489
202,712

Division of Air Quality
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 34,980
111,406

$1,640,295

$439,201

$146,386

———————
$2,807,993
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Public Safety Administration
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

1768

$1,846,425
$ 1,169,919
676,506

December 3, 2014

The City Record

21

Division of Police
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 46,750,905
4,272,875

$51,023,780

Division of Fire
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 22,261,725
1,492,971

Division of Emergency Medical Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 6,049,768
1,174,422

Division of Animal Control Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$ 318,306
208,198

Division of Correction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 2,835,112
1,420,406

$23,754,696

$7,224,190

$526,504

$4,255,518

———————
$88,631,113
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Division of Public Works Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 825,748
82,267

$908,015

Division of Recreation
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$ 2,204,666
2,392,999

Division of Parking Facilities-On Street
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 336,228
35,369

Division of Property Management
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 1,529,970
978,932

Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 2,445,079
3,366,108

Division of Waste
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 3,785,432
4,301,713

Division of Traffic Engineering
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 781,546
322,665

$4,597,665

$371,597

$2,508,902

$5,811,187

$8,087,145

$1,104,211

———————
$23,388,722
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING
Building and Housing Dir Office
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 484,325
198,371

$682,696

Division of Code Enforcement
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$ 1,649,589
77,132

Division of Construction Permit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 427,920
6,137

$1,726,721

$434,057

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING

1769

———————
$2,843,474
———————
———————

The City Record

22

December 3, 2014

DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Economic Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$458,356
$ 451,907
6,449

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

———————
$458,356
———————
———————

NONDEPARTMENTAL
Other Administrative
II.
Other Expenses

$ 6,913,910

$6,913,910

Transfers to Other Funds
II.
Other Expenses

$ 13,845,963

$13,845,963
———————
$20,759,873
———————
———————

TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL
TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH

$157,587,683
———————
———————
$172,613,936
———————
———————

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

SPECIAL REVENUE FUND
Restricted Income Tax Fund
II.
Other Expenses

$37,793,875
$ 37,793,875

Street Construction, Maintenance & Repair Fund
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$15,598,726
$ 5,375,290
10,223,436

Division of Public Auditorium & Stadium-Stadium
II.
Other Expenses
$ 9,415,690

$9,415,690
———————
$62,808,291
———————
———————

TOTAL SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS

INTERNAL SERVICE FUND
Sinking Fund Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$351,306
$ 70,886
280,420

Information Systems Services-Telephone Exchange
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$2,734,514
$ 411,487
2,323,027

Health Self Insurance
II.
Other Expenses

$ 22,159,920

$22,159,920

Health Self Insurance
II.
Other Expenses

$ 4,992,000

Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$ 1,491,050
5,838,824

Division of Printing and Reproduction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 236,433
625,983

City Storeroom and Central Warehouse
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 34,326
186,394

$4,992,000

$7,329,874

$862,416

$220,720

———————
$38,650,750
———————
———————

TOTAL INTERNAL SERVICE FUNDS

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
Utilities Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

1770

$1,605,370
$ 1,208,365
397,005

The City Record

December 3, 2014

23

Radio
I.
II.

$1,310,172
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$ 167,530
1,142,642

Division of Fiscal Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 1,437,320
271,176

Division of Water
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 23,239,164
98,105,331

Division of Water Pollution Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 3,309,432
5,793,312

Division of Cleveland Public Power
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 7,183,841
68,422,629

$1,708,496

$121,344,495

$9,102,744

$75,606,470

———————
$210,677,747
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
Divisions
Airports I.
II.

of Cleveland Hopkins & Burke Lakefront
Operations
Personnel and Related Expenses
$ 9,299,944
Other Expenses
61,625,474

$70,925,418

———————
$70,925,418
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Division of Cemeteries
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 339,909
314,008

$653,917

Golf Course Fund
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 2,000
17,200

$19,200

Division of Parking Facilities-Off Street Parking
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 379,330
4,094,705

$4,474,035

Division of Public Auditorium
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 358,839
567,414

Division of Public Auditorium & StadiumWest Side Market
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 120,397
646,940

$926,253

$767,337

———————
$6,840,742
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

$288,443,907
———————
———————
AGENCY FUND

Central Collection Agency
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$3,652,235
$ 2,029,135
1,623,100
———————
$3,652,235
———————
———————

TOTAL AGENCY FUND

DEBT SERVICE FUND
Sinking Fund Commission
III.
Debt Service

$26,375,750
$ 26,375,750
———————
$26,375,750
———————
———————

TOTAL DEBT SERVICE FUNDS

1771

24

The City Record

December 3, 2014

Section 2. That all expenditures and payments made under and pursuant to the ordinance appropriating such
sum or sums of money shall be charged against the annual appropriation ordinance for the fiscal year ending
December 31, 2015, when such appropriation ordinance shall become effective, and to the various departments and
divisions and payment of whose officers and employees and operating expenses such sum or sums of money hereunder shall then have paid out or expended. Provided, however, that no payment shall be made under the authority of this ordinance after the effective date of said Annual Appropriation Ordinance for the fiscal year ending
December 31, 2015.
Section 3. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.

Ord. No. 1597-14.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Council President to enter into
an agreement with Cobalt Group, Inc.
for the professional services necessary to provide for implementation of
an operations and sustainability plan
for Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council President is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Cobalt Group, Inc.
(“Consultant”) for the professional
services necessary to provide for the
implementation of an operations and
sustainability plan for Cleveland City
Council, including the services set
forth in Consultant’s 2015 Statement
of Work and those services as may be
directed by the Clerk of Council or her
designee. This agreement shall be
entered into as of January 1, 2015 and
shall be for a term of one year, concluding December 31, 2015.
The agreement shall be certified in
an amount not to exceed $66,000.00
from fund 01, dept. 0101, subfund 001,
and object code 6320.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1598-14.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into
contract with Mita Marketing LLC for
the professional services necessary to
assist Cleveland City Council with
communications and public relations.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to enter into an agreement with Mita Marketing LLC for
the professional services necessary to
assist Cleveland City Council with
communications and public relations,
for a one year period beginning January 1, 2015 and concluding December
31, 2015.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall not exceed $60,000 and
shall be certified from Fund 01, Dept.
0101, Subfund 001, Object Code 6320.

Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1599-14.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into
an agreement with Solar Systems Networking Inc. for the professional services necessary to advise and assist
in the maintenance and performance
of computer technology projects and
to provide specific computer technology services for Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council
(“Clerk”) is authorized to enter into
an agreement with Solar Systems Networking Inc. (“Consultant”), for the
professional services necessary to
advise and assist in the maintenance
and performance of computer technology projects and to provide specific
computer technology services to
assist with specific projects as set
forth in the agreement. This agreement shall be entered into as of January 1, 2015 and shall be for a term of
one year, concluding December 31,
2015. The cost of all services under
this amendment shall not exceed
$80,000 and shall be paid for from
fund 11-006 and/or 21-006.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1600-14.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance to enter
into an agreement with Western
Reserve Land Conservancy d/b/a
Thriving Communities Institute to
provide professional services regarding the Vacant and Abandoned Property Action Council (VAPAC), demolition bond, reforestation, demolition
funding, rehabilitation, and code
enforcement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for

1772

the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to enter into an agreement with Western Reserve Land
Conservancy d/b/a Thriving Communities Institute to provide professional services regarding the Vacant
and Abandoned Property Action
Council (VAPAC), demolition bond,
reforestation, demolition funding,
rehabilitation, and code enforcement
for a one year period beginning January 1, 2015 and concluding December
31, 2015.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall not exceed $150,000 and
shall be certified from Fund 01, Dept.
0101, Subfund 001, Object Code 6320.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1601-14.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into
an agreement with Guy Gadomski,
CPA to provide professional financial
consulting and auditing services necessary for Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to enter into an agreement with Guy Gadomski, CPA to provide professional financial consulting and auditing services necessary
for Cleveland City Council, including
but not limited to, analysis of the
Mayor’s Estimate, preparation and
presentation of the Council budget
retreat, and briefings to the Council
President, and any other financial
advisory services as directed by the
Clerk or her designee. This agreement shall be entered into as of January 1, 2015 and shall be for a term of
one year, concluding December 31,
2015.
The agreement shall be certified in
an amount not to exceed $50,000.00
from fund 01, dept. 0101 subfund 001
object code 6320.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

December 3, 2014
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1602-14.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into
an agreement with The Project Group
for professional assistance in investigating utility–related matters pertaining to the Divisions of Cleveland
Public Power, Water and Water Pollution Control for Cleveland City
Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to enter into an agreement with the Project Group for professional assistance in investigating
utility–related matters pertaining to
the Divisions of Cleveland Public
Power, Water and Water Pollution
Control for Cleveland City Council.
This agreement shall be entered into
as of January 1, 2015 and shall be for
a term of one year, concluding December 31, 2015. The agreement shall be
certified in an amount not to exceed
$250,000.00 from fund 52-001, 54-001
and/or 58-001 and such other funds as
may be deemed appropriate by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1596-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for The Santa Shuffle on
December 13, 2014, sponsored by Hermes Sports and Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
The Santa Shuffle on December 13,
2014, start: Starkweather & Scranton;
Starkweather east to Professor; Professor north to Fairfield; Fairfield
west to West 11th and (finish line);
provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may
be closed as determined by the Chief
of Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit
shall further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to the

The City Record
extent and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1603-14.
By Council Members Kelley, Pruitt,
Reed, Cimperman, K. Johnson, Cleveland, Mitchell, Dow, Polensek, Conwell, J. Johnson, Brady, Brancatelli,
Cummins, Zone, Sweeney and Keane.
An emergency resolution opposing
Am. Sub. H.B. 5 which, if passed as
currently proposed, will have serious
financial impact on cities and villages of Ohio.
Whereas, in early 2013, H.B. 5 was
introduced in the Ohio House in an
attempt to create uniformity in the
collection
and
administration
of
municipal income taxes in Ohio; and
Whereas,
however,
the
bill
extends the concept of uniformity
into areas that will impact the tax
revenue collected by communities
like Cleveland; and
Whereas, the pending legislation
could result in a substantial reduction in resources for the hundreds of
Ohio communities that levy an
income tax; and could lead to further budget consequences such as
service cuts and tax increases; and
Whereas, when combined with the
significant loss of revenue that
municipalities already face as a
result of 4 years of state policy
changes and state budget cuts, the
potential impact to Ohio communities is staggering; and
Whereas, if Am. Sub. H.B. 5 passes, the potential impact on Ohio communities is estimated to exceed $82
million per year; when taken with
the annual impacts of other cuts to
local governments contained in the
past 2 state budgets, the impact to
municipalities will approach half a
billion dollars per year; for some
Ohio communities, this reduction in
resources exceeds 20% of their
annual budgets; and
Whereas, for the City of Cleveland, should Am. Sub. H.B. 5 pass,
the resulting revenue loss would be
in excess of $3 million, which would
inevitably harm our ability to provide needed services at the level citizens and business rely on; this
would be detrimental to the safety
and economic stability of the city;
and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has already lost $30 million due to
state cuts in the Local Government
Fund, the accelerated phase-out of
Tangible Personal Property reimbursement and cuts to the Commercial Activity Tax, and has lost $5.5
million because of the elimination of
the estate tax; and

1773

25
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
opposes Am. Sub. H.B. 5 which, if
passed as currently proposed, will
have serious financial impact on
cities and villages of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit copies
of this resolution to all members of
the Ohio legislature.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
15. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1604-14.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pruitt, Reed, K. Johnson, Cleveland,
Mitchell, Dow, Polensek, Conwell, J.
Johnson, Brady, Brancatelli, Kelley,
Cummins, Zone, Sweeney and Keane.
An emergency resolution urging
the Ohio State Board of Education to
wait 90 days to allow more community input before voting on its intent to
eliminate the “5 of 8” rule.
Whereas, the Ohio State Board of
Education plans to vote in December on whether to eliminate the socalled “5 of 8” rule that requires
school districts to fill at least five
of eight jobs for every 1,000 students
with elementary art, music or physical education teachers, school counselors, library media specialists,
school nurses, social workers, and
visiting teachers;  and
Whereas, if this proposal passes,
each district would decide how
many of these critical positions to
fill, which leaves them open to cuts;
and
Whereas, state teachers unions
and associations of school librarians, nurses and counselors are concerned that local boards and administrators will see this as an opportunity to control budgets by eliminating art, music and physical education teachers, school counselors,
library media
specialists, school
nurses and social workers; and
Whereas, these professionals, parents and community members are
concerned about the effect that eliminating these required positions will
have on the quality of education for
students; and
Whereas, more time is needed for
community discussion of what personnel schools really need to help
students thrive, and what expectations should be set for all public
schools;  and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

26
Section 1. That this Council urges
the Ohio State Board of Education to
wait 90 days to allow more community input before voting on its intent to
eliminate the “5 of 8” rule.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
15. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 974-13.
By Council Members Miller and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 551.05, 551.111 and 551.991 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance
No.
773-A-80,
passed
December 14, 1981 and Ordinance No.
1291-11, passed December 9, 2011
relating to setting out an excessively large quantity of waste for
collection prohibited, applicability,
penalty, and civil infractions.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. In the title, line 2, after “Section” insert “551.041,”.
2. In Section 1, after line 2, insert:
“Section 551.041, as amended by
Ordinance No. 697-10, passed August
18, 2010;”.
3. In Section 1, after line 7, insert
the following new amended Section
551.041 to read as follows:
“Section 551.041 Infractions Related to Automated Waste Collection
and Curbside Recycling
Findings. It is essential to the success of the automated waste collection and curbside recycling program
described in division (b) that waste
set out for collection is placed in the
correct container for the type of
waste involved.
If the correct container is not
used, it increases both the labor and
disposal costs for the waste. If recyclable materials become contaminated by regular household waste, then
they must be disposed of as regular
solid waste, which is more costly
than treating them as recyclables. If
the regular household waste container is used for the disposal of
recyclable materials, then the economic and environmental benefits of
recycling are not realized.
To achieve the goals of the program it is necessary that all citizens
use the container intended for disposal of the type of waste involved
and avoid all mixing of recyclable
materials and regular household
waste.
(a) No person shall do any of the
following at any parcel included in
the automated waste collection and
curbside
recycling
program
described in division (b):
(1) Set out for collection the container
designated
for
recyclable

The City Record
materials if its contents exceed two
percent
(2%)
regular
household
waste by volume.
(2) Set out for collection the container designated for regular household waste if its contents exceed ten
percent (10%) recyclable materials
by volume.
(3) Set out for collection any regular household waste in any container or bag other than the container designated for regular household waste for use in the automated waste collection program.
It is not a violation of this division to set out for collection at any
parcel included in the program
described in division (b) special
waste set out in accordance with
Section 551.05.
Nothing in this section shall be
construed as abrogating or limiting
any other section of these Codified
Ordinances including without limitation the prohibition on setting out
an excessively large quantity of
waste for collection as proscribed by
Section 551.111.
(b) The offenses established in
division (a) pertain to any parcel
that is included in the automated
waste collection and curbside recycling program in which the waste is
collected by means of a truck
equipped with mechanical arms. The
City will distribute two (2) containers to each household in the program, one (1) designated for regular household waste, and the other
designated for recyclable materials.
(c) As use in this section:
(1) “Recyclable materials” means
glass, metal cans, plastic bottles,
mixed paper, and cardboard that are
prepared for collection in accordance with this chapter and the
rules and regulations issued under
it.
(2) “Regular household waste”
means waste generated in ordinary
excluding
recyresidential
uses
clable materials, hazardous waste
and any waste excluded from being
placed out for curbside collection by
law, rule or regulation.”.
4. In Section 1, at amended Section
551.05(a), line 1, after “furniture,”
insert “tires, yard waste,”.
5. In Section 1, at amended Section
551.111(a), strike lines 3 and 4 in
their entirety and insert “exceeding
five
approved
waste
containers,
twenty bags of yard waste, twenty
bundles of brush or tree trunks, four
tires, or three special waste items as
described in division (b) of Section
551.05.”.
6. In Section 1, at amended Section
551.111(b), strike lines 3 and 4 in
their entirety and insert “waste
exceeding twenty bags of yard
waste, twenty bundles of brush or
tree trunks, four tires, or three special waste items as described in
division (b) of Section 551.05.”.
7. In Section 1, at amended Section
551.111(d), line 3, strike “two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).” and
insert “three hundred fifty dollars
($350.00):”.
8. In Section 1, at amended Section
551.991(a)(2), line 1, strike “55.104”
and insert “551.04”.
9. In Section 1, at amended Section
551.991(f), strike the schedule in its
entirety and insert:
“Section Civil Penalty
551.111, division (a)
$100.00.
However, if the quantity of solid
waste exceeds ten approved waste
containers, forty bags of yard waste,

1774

December 3, 2014
forty bundles or brush or tree
trunks, eight tires, or six special
waste items, the civil penalty shall
be $350.00.
551.111, division (b)
$100.00.
However, if the quantity of solid
waste exceeds ten approved waste
containers, forty bags of yard waste,
forty bundles of brush or tree
trunks, or six special waste items,
the civil penalty shall be $350.00
551.04, division (d)
$100.00
551.04, division (e)
$100.00
551.041, division (a)
$100.00”.
10. In Section 2, after line 2, insert:
“Section 551.041, as amended by
Ordinance No. 697-10, passed August
18, 2010;”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 11.
Nays 4.
Those voting yea: Council Members Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland, Conwell, Dow, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Pruitt and
Sweeney.
Those voting nay: Council Members Brady, Cummins, Keane and
Polensek.
Absent: Council Members Reed
and Zone.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1345-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
departmental
and
Kelley
(by
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health and
the Academy of Educational Development for the 2015-2017 Federal
AIDS Prevention Program; and to
enter into contracts with various
agencies to implement the program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1346-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Department of Health for the
2014-15 Healthy Weight Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1347-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Department of Health for the
2015-2017 STD Control Prevention Program; authorizing the Director to
enter into contracts with various
agencies or entities to implement the
grant; and to enter into an agreement

December 3, 2014
with the Ohio Department of Health
for the City to receive payments from
the Medicaid program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1348-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Kelley, J. Johnson and Polensek (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to apply to the District
One Public Works Integrating Committee for state funding for the rehabilitation of U.S. Route 42, Scranton
Road/Carter Road, Clark Avenue,
and East 152nd Street; to apply for
and accept grants from various entities for the improvements; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
enter into contracts and agreements
to design and construct the improvements and other agreements needed
for the improvements; and authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to acquire, accept, and
record for right-of-way purposes real
property and easements necessary to
make the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1349-14.
By Council Members Reed, K. Johnson and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
County of Cuyahoga for the resurfacing of Turney Road from Warner
Road to the Cleveland south corporation line; authorizing the Director of
Capital Projects to enter into any relative agreements; to apply for and
accept an allocation of County Motor
Vehicle License Tax Funds for the
improvement; and authorizing the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire, accept, and record for
right-of-way purposes any real property and easements necessary to
make the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1350-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the general fund to receive and
use revenue from tax remittances collected by Cleveland Public Power during the years 2015 and 2016 and transfer 50% of tax receipts collected in
both years back to Cleveland Public
Power.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Utilities, Finance.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1383-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Alcohol Drug Addiction and Mental
Health Services Board of Cuyahoga
County for the 2015 Mental Health
and Substance Abuse Prevention Program; and to enter into one or more
agreements with the Board for the
City to receive payments from the
Medicaid program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1384-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Department of Health for the
Title X Program; authorizing the
director to charge and accept fees;
entering into one or more agreements
to receive payments from Medicare,
Medicaid and Medicaid HMO programs; contracting with various entities, authorizing one or more requirement contracts; and authorizing the
purchase or lease of television and
radio advertising time and other
media.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1418-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to employ one or more professional consultants to provide grant
writing services; and authorizing the
Director of Community Development
to apply for and accept the Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration or Lead
Hazard Control Grant and the
Healthy Homes Grant both from the
U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development; authorizing the
purchase by one or more standard and
requirement contracts of materials,
equipment, supplies, and services necessary to implement the grants and
for the rental of furniture and other
household articles to supply and
accommodate displaced persons; and
authorizing one or more contracts
with various entities, agencies, or
individuals to implement the grants.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

1775

27
Ord. No. 1439-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli, K.
Johnson and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for repairing pavement
along a portion of Broadview Road;
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to enter into any relative
agreements; and causing payment of
the City’s share to the State for the
cost of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1440-14.
By Council Members Cleveland, K.
Johnson and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for repairing pavement
along a portion of Community College
Avenue; authorizing the Director of
Capital Projects to enter into any relative agreements; and causing payment of the City’s share to the State
for the cost of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1441-14.
By Council Members Conwell, K.
Johnson and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for repairing pavement
along a portion of East Boulevard and
Ford Drive; authorizing the Director
of Capital Projects to enter into any
relative agreements; and causing
payment of the City’s share to the
State for the cost of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1442-14.
By Council Members Pruitt, Reed,
K. Johnson, Kelley and Brancatelli
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for repairing pavement
along a portion of Harvard Avenue;
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to enter into any relative
agreements; and causing payment of
the City’s share to the State for the
cost of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Finance.

28
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1443-14.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Cleveland, K. Johnson and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for repairing pavement
along a portion of Prospect Avenue;
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to enter into any relative
agreements; and causing payment of
the City’s share to the State for the
cost of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1444-14.
By Council Members Brady, Zone,
Sweeney, K. Johnson and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for repairing pavement
along a portion of West 117th Street;
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to enter into any relative
agreements; and causing payment of
the City’s share to the State for the
cost of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1445-14.
By Council Members Brady, Zone,
K. Johnson and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for repairing pavement
along a portion of West Boulevard;
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to enter into any relative
agreements; and causing payment of
the City’s share to the State for the
cost of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1469-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the continuation of Section 343.23
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance 1648-12, passed November 26,
2012, relating to drive-through lanes
in pedestrian retail overlay districts.
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Development Planning and Sustainability,
when amended, as follows:

The City Record
1. In the title, at the end, and in
Section 1, at the end, strike the period in both places and insert “for a
period of two years from the effective date of this ordinance.”.
2. In the third whereas clause, line
2, after “2012” insert “for a period of
two years from the effective date of
this ordinance”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1507-14.
By Council Members Keane, Kelley and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the second and sixth whereas clauses, and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 561-14, passed June 2, 2014,
relating to lease agreements with
Cumberland TCC, LLC, for property
commonly known as the Harbor
West Docks, and three sites at North
Coast Harbor for future development.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Transportation,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 5, strike “wholly owned by” and insert “or another
wholly owned subsidiary of”.
2. In Section 1, at amended Section
1, strike lines 5 and 6 in their entirety and insert “the Project Site as
illustrated by the Phase map with
lease area and street and park borderlines subject to slight variations
at the discretion of the Developer
and approval of the City Planning
Commission, and placed in File No.
561-14-D”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1509-14.
By Council Members Keane, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 3 of Ordinance No. 425-14,
passed April 14, 2014, relating to an
Enterprise Zone Agreement with
Oatey Company, or its designee, to
provide for a tax abatement for certain tangible real property improvements needed to construct a new
headquarters in the Emerald Corporate Park; and to authorize the
Director of Economic Development
to enter into an amendment to Contract No. 50034, as amended, with
Emerald Research Park, Ltd., to
change certain terms and conditions
of the agreement.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

1776

December 3, 2014
Ord. No. 1516-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with Cleveland Housing Network for
professional services necessary to
provide administration and other
related services for the Division of
Water’s discount affordability program, for a period of one year, with
one one-year option to renew, exercisable by the Director of Public
Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1520-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to enter into contract with
the Cuyahoga County Public Defender Commission for legal services
necessary
to
defend
indigents
charged with violation of ordinances
of the City of Cleveland that may
in
incarceration,
for
the
result
Cleveland Municipal Court for a
period of one year, with one option
to renew for an additional one-year
period, exercisable by the Director
of Finance.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1521-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of repairing or
replacing roofs and appurtenances,
including but not limited to roofing
systems; authorizing the Director of
Public Utilities to enter into one or
more public improvement by requirement contracts for the making of
the improvement; and authorizing
the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of maintaining, testing, evaluating, repairing or replacing roofs and appurtenances, including but not limited to roofing systems, and repairing water damage
to structures and structure components caused by leaky roofs, for the
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Utilities, Finance,
when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 5, line 1, after “contracts shall” insert “not exceed $1.1
million dollars and shall”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

December 3, 2014
Ord. No. 1557-14.
By Council Members Conwell and J.
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance designating East 112th Street between Primrose Avenue and Superior Avenue
with a secondary and honorary designation of “Steve Harvey Way”.
Approved by Directors of Law; Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Cleveland, the absences of Council
Members Zack Reed and Matthew
Zone are hereby authorized. Seconded by Council Member Sweeney.
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:55 p.m. to meet on Monday, December 8, 2014, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chamber.

The City Record
provide professional architectural/
engineering services for the Rehabilitation and New Construction of
Public Facilities for Public Works,
Public Safety, and Public Health
Design Package 1: Various Recreation Center and Park Improvements.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into a written contract
with Osborn Engineering, based
upon their proposal dated September
4, 2014 for a total cost not to exceed
$401,320.00, which contract shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall provide for furnishing of professional services as stated in the
proposal and shall contain such
other terms and conditions as the
Director of Law deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultants by Osborn Engineering
is approved:
Percentage
Amount

Sub-Consultant

Behnke Landscape
Architects CSB

Regency Construction
CSB/FBE
Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

November 26, 2014
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, November 26,
2014 at 10:34 a.m. with Director
Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Johnson, Directors Parrilla, Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director McGrath.
Others: Melissa Burrows, Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
Matthew Spronz, Director, Mayor’s
Office of Capital Projects.
Tiffany
White,
Commissioner,
Division of Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 538-14.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
732-14 passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on June 9, 2014,
Osborn Engineering is selected upon
the nomination of the Director of
Capital Projects as the firm to be
employed by contract to supplement
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City to

29

DLZ Ohio FBE

19.765%
$ 79,320.00

2.990%
$ 12,000.00
0.000%
$110,000.00

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Johnson, Directors Parrilla, Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director McGrath.
Resolution No. 539-14.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
733-14 passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on June 9, 2014, R.
E. Warner & Associates, Inc., is
selected upon the nomination of the
Director of Capital Projects as the
firm to be employed by contract to
supplement the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City to provide professional
services
architectural/engineering
for the Rehabilitation and New Construction of Public Facilities for
Public Works, Public Safety, and
Public Health Design Package 2:
Various Public Facility Improvements.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into a written contract
with R. E. Warner & Associates,
Inc., based upon their proposal
dated September 5, 2014 for a total
cost not to exceed $281,826.00, which
contract shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall provide
for furnishing of professional services as stated in the proposal and
shall contain such other terms and
conditions as the Director of Law
deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultants by R. E. Warner & Associates, Inc. is approved:

1777

Sub-Consultant

Percentage
Amount

McGuiness Unlimited, Inc.
CSB/FBE

Osborn Engineering CSB

6.467%
$18,225.00
18.000%
$50,728.00

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Johnson, Directors Parrilla, Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director McGrath.
Resolution No. 540-14.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
734-14 passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on June 9, 2014,
DLZ Architecture, Inc., is selected
upon the nomination of the Director
of Capital Projects as the firm to be
employed by contract to supplement
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City to
provide professional architectural/
engineering services for the Rehabilitation and New Construction of
Public Facilities for Public Works,
Public Safety, and Public Health
Design Package 3: Various Safety
Facility Improvements.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into a written contract
with DLZ Architecture, Inc., based
upon their proposal dated September
5, 2014 for a total cost not to exceed
$524,383.00, which contract shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall provide for furnishing of professional services as stated in the
proposal and shall contain such
other terms and conditions as the
Director of Law deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultants by DLZ Architecture,
Inc. is approved:
Sub-Consultant

Regency Construction
Services CSB

Osborn Engineering CSB

Percentage
Amount

2.932%
$ 14,640.00
37.082%
$185,180.00

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Johnson, Directors Parrilla, Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director McGrath.
Resolution No. 541-14.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, under the authority of
passed
Ordinance
No.
1591-13,
November 25, 2013 by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, the Director
of Public Works and the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies are
authorized
to
purchase
property
needed for Stage 3 of the Towpath
Trail Project, the location of which

30
is described in the ordinance, for a
consideration that shall not exceed
fair market value as determined by
the Board of Control; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that the
consideration of $40,000.00 to be paid
to Edward Reynolds for the purchase of 1063 Holmden Avenue, also
known as PPN 008-14-062 and PPN
008-14-063, needed for Stage 3 of the
Towpath Trail Project, is determined not to exceed fair market
value.
Langhenry,
Yeas:
Directors
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Johnson, Directors Parrilla, Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director McGrath.
Resolution No. 542-14.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
Nos., 124-18-001, 124-18-002, 124-18-004,
124-18-005, 124-18-006, 124-18-008, 12418-010, 124-18-014, 124-18-015, 124-18016, 124-18-017, 124-18-018, 124-18-057,
124-18-063, 124-18-064, 124-18-065, 12419-026, 124-19-027, 124-19-028, 124-19029, 124-19-030 located on Bushnell
Avenue, Kinsman Avenue, Grand
Avenue, East 64th Street and East
65th Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Northeast Ohio Regional
Sewer District has proposed to the
City to purchase and develop the
parcels for a green infrastructure
project; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 5 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcels is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Northeast Ohio
Regional Sewer District for the sale
and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 124-18-001, 124-18-002, 124-18004, 124-18-005, 424-18-006, 124-18-008,
124-18-010, 124-18-014, 124-18-015, 124-18016, 124-18-017, 124-18-018, 124-18-057,
124-18-063, 124-18-064, 124-18-065, 124-19026, 124-19-027, 124-19-028, 124-19-029,
Bushnell
124-19-030
located
on

The City Record
Avenue, Kinsman Avenue, Grand
Avenue, East 64th Street and East
65th Street, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcels
shall be $85,150.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcels for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Johnson, Directors Parrilla, Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director McGrath.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, DECEMBER 22, 2014
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 14-221: 2173 Professor
Avenue (Ward 3)
Sutton
Builders,
LLC.,
owner
appeals to change use from store to
restaurant in a C1 General Retail
Business
District.
The
owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application of Section 349.04 of the
Cleveland
Codified
Ordinances
which states that 11 additional offstreet parking spaces are required
and
none
are
proposed.
(Filed
November 6, 2014)

1778

December 3, 2014
Calendar No. 14-223: 2232 West 11th
Street (front unit) and 2236 West
11th Street (rear unit) (Ward 3)
Micro House Cleveland, owner,
proposes to change the use of the
existing front two-family dwelling
to a three family residence and the
rear single family dwelling to a two
family residence in a B1 Multi-Family Residential District. The owner
appeals for relief from the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 349.05(a) which states
that no parking space shall be located within ten feet of any wall of a
residential building or structure
which contains a ground floor opening designated to provide light or
ventilation for such building or
structure.
2. Section 349.07(a) which states
that accessory off-street parking
spaces and maneuvering area shall
be properly graded for drainage
within the lot provided for such
parking spaces.
3. Section 349.07(b) which states
that accessory off-street parking
spaces shall be provided with wheel
or bumper guards that are so located that no part of the parked vehicle will extend beyond such parking
space.
4. Section 349.08 which states that
screening of 5 or more off-street
parking spaces shall be screened
with an opaque wall or painted
fence or strip of land at least four
feet wide and densely planted with
shrubs that form dense screen year
round.
5. Section 355.04(b) which states
that the minimum lot area required
for 5 selling units is 12,000 square
feet and 7,524 square feet are proposed.
6. Section 357.15(a) which states
that the rear building behind a main
building on residential lot shall not
be less than 40 feet away and 29
feet are proposed.
7. Section 359.01(a) which states
that an expansion of a nonconforming use requires Board of Zoning
Appeals Approval. (Filed November
11, 2014)
Calendar No. 14-227: 5437 Broadway
Avenue
(aka
3328
East
55th
Street) (Ward 5)
4 Ever Social Club, owner, proposes to establish use as a banquet
hall for weddings, receptions, and
other events in a C2 Local Retail
The
owner
Business
District.
appeals for relief from the strict
application of the following sections
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 343.11(b)(2)(L) which
states that an assembly/banquet
hall is not permitted in the Local
Retail Business District but is first
permitted in General Retail Business.
2. Section 349.04(e) which states
that a parking area equal to three
times
the
gross
floor
area
is
required and no parking is shown.
(Filed November 13, 2014)
Calendar No. 14-228: 14428 Triskett
Road (Ward 17)
St. Mel Church, owner, proposes to
erect a 4' x 8' x 8' high single face
illuminated identification message
center ground sign in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District. The

December 3, 2014
owner appeals for relief from the
following sections of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 350.13(g) which states
that the ground sign requires Board
of Zoning Appeals approval.
2.
Section
350.13(g)(2)
which
states that the information displayed on the sign shall be limited
to information pertaining to the
community facility use; the information shall remain static or fixed
for twenty seconds and motion is
not allowed. (Filed November 17,
2014)
Calendar No. 14-230: 4320 West 130th
Street (Ward 16)
Lindsey & Josephine Smith, owners, propose to establish use as
motor vehicle sales in a C1 General
Retail Business District. The owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application of the following sections
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 349.04(f) which states
that the total parking area must be
equal to 25% of the gross lot area
and the gross lot area is 12,870
square feet therefore 3,217.5 square
feet of parking is required (18
square feet for employee, 900 for
customer parking, display parking
is 1800 square feet).
2. Section 352.09 which states that
a transition strip of 10 feet is
required and none are proposed.
(Filed November 19, 2014)
Postponed from October 27, 2014
Calendar No. 14-045: 4384 Lee Road
(Ward 1)
Johnny
Abounader,
owner,
appeals to establish use as motor
vehicle repair and used auto sales
in a C1 Local Retail Business District
and
contrary
to
Section
343.01(b) of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances a motor vehicle repair
garage is not permitted in a Local
Retail Business District but first
permitted in a Semi-Industry District per Section 345.03(c)(2); and
used auto sales is not permitted in
a Local Retail Business District but
first permitted in a General Retail
Business
District
per
Section
343.11(b)(2)(H)(4); and pursuant to
Section 349.04 a detailed parking
plan showing location of striped ,
accessory off-street parking spaces
is required to determine compliance
with parking count requirements
and no plan was submitted, said
detailed
plan
should
have
also
shown areas used for accessory offstreet parking being paved and
drained per Section 349.07 and no
detail is given; and subject to Section
352.08-.12 a
six
foot
wide
frontage strip providing 50% year
round opacity is required where
parking abuts the street and none is
shown;
and
subject
to
Section
341.02(a) exterior alterations of site
in a designated Design Review District
requires
the
review
and
approval of the City Planning Commission. (Filed March 24, 2014 - no
testimony)
Postponement made at the request
of the Board in order to allow for
time for the applicant to complete
the Design Review. 2nd request.
Postponed from October 13, 2014
Calendar No. 14-095: 4207 Clark
Avenue (Ward 3)
Antonio Ortiz, owner, proposes
expand an existing nonconforming

The City Record
motor vehicle repair garage located
in a C2 Semi-Industry District by
constructing a new 1,324 square foot
detailing
shop
addition.
Owner
appeals for relief from the following
Sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1.
Section
345.03(c)(2)
which
states that a repair garage for
repair or painting of motor vehicles,
is permitted in Semi-Industry provided that such use is located not
less than one hundred (100) feet
from a Residence District and the
property abuts a Two Family Residential District.
2. Section 359.01(a) which states
that the expansion of an existing
nonconforming use requires Board
of Zoning Appeals Approval.
3. Section 343.11(b)(2)(I)(2) states
that an automobile laundry cannot
be located less than 100 feet from a
Residence District and the property
abuts a Two Family Residential
District.
4. Section 349.04(g) requires 7 off
street parking spaces and none are
shown. (Filed May 30, 2014 - no testimony)
Fourth postponement made at the
request of the Councilman in order
to allow for more time to review the
project.
Calendar No. 14-66: 4157 Lorain
Avenue (Ward 3)
Thomas Papouras, owner, proposes to establish a used car lot on a
parcel of land that is 80' x 125',
located in a D3 Local Retail Business
District
and
a
Pedestrian
Retail Overlay District (PRO). The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application of the following
Cleveland Zoning Code Sections:
1. Section 343.11(b)(2)(I)(4) which
states that used auto sales is first
permitted in General Retail Business.
2. Section 352.10 requiring a 4 foot
wide frontage landscape strip along
Lorain
Avenue
and
West
42nd
Street.
3. Section 352.10 requiring a 10
foot wide transition strip at the rear
where the property abuts a residential district.
4. Section 347.11 requiring that the
area for display of cars and customers parking must be hard surfaced and drained within lot.
5. Section 349.04(f) which states
that an Auto sales lot must provide
25% of their gross lot area for customer parking.
6. Section 343.23(e)(1)(A)
PRO
District prohibits opens sales/car
lots (Filed May 5, 2014 – no testimony).
Postponement requested by the
Appellant in order to allow for time
to explore his legal rights as it pertains to the denial of the conditional use by the City Planning Commission.
REHEARING
Calendar No. 14-202: 2012 West 25th
Street (Ward 3)
MRN, owner, proposes to display
two
business
identification
wall
signs, each approximately 30 square
feet in area on a building located in
a C4 Local Retail Business District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:

1779

31
1. Section 350.16 which states that
for permit applications within Landmark Districts, Public Land Protective Districts or Business Revitalization Districts, the Landmarks
Commission or City Planning Commission, as applicable, may authorize the Commissioner of Building
and Housing to issue a permit
which requires adherence to standards which are either less strict or
more strict than the standards. The
Landmarks Commission, in Certificate of Appropriateness 14-028, has
required applicant in this case to
seek
a
variance
from
Section
350.20(a) of the Zoning Code.
2. Section 350.02(a) for uses not
located on the ground floor and for
ground floor uses which lack direct
access from the building exterior,
the following signs shall be permitted in addition to signs otherwise
permitted for the building. Regardless of the number of such uses in
a building, not more than one (1)
wall or projecting identification
sign, a maximum of twelve (12)
square feet in area, shall be placed
at each ground floor entrance providing access to the uses in question. Two wall signs, each of
approximately 30 square feet are
proposed. (Filed October 7, 2014)
Rehearing requested by the City
Planning Commission and the Councilman due to a miscommunication;
original hearing date was November
17, 2014.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2014
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, December 1, 2014, the following appeals
were scheduled for hearing before
the Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 14-209: 2925 Jay Avenue
Patrick Sullivan, owner, proposes
to construct a 3,000 square foot, twostory, single family house on a 4,300
square foot lot located in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-210: 1810 West 25th
Street (Unit 3)
Tom Gillespie, owner, proposes to
establish use as a café in C3 Local
Retail
Business
District
and
a
Pedestrian Retail Overlay District
(PRO).
Calendar No. 14-212: 3000 Bridge
Avenue
WSCH, LLC, owner, proposes to
establish use for four business
office tenants in basement floor,
total 2,692 gross floor area, in a nonconforming building authorized for
21 apartments and a coffee shop in
a B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The
following
DENIED:
None.

appeals

were

The City Record

32
The following appeal was WITHDRAWN:
Calendar No. 14-213: 3610 Superior
Avenue
3620 Superior Avenue LLC, owner,
proposes to expand the existing bar
to
include
DJ/Dance/Amusement
and to add 149.8 square feet exterior smoking area in a Semi-Industry
Zoning District.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.
The following appeals were POSTPONED:
Calendar
No.
14-208:
Reginald
Phillips
1310 East 125th Street. Postponed
to January 5, 2015.
Calendar
No.
14-211:
BuckeyeFDBTS, LLC
12915 Buckeye Road. Postponed to
January 12, 2015.

Correction from last week
Nov. 24, 2014
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, November 24, 2014, the following appeal
was heard and approved but omitted
from the previous report:
Calendar No. 14-204: 15402 Macauley
Road
Michael Dubson, owner, appeals
the decision rendered by the City of
Parking
Violations
Cleveland
Bureau Waste Collection and Photo
Safety Division and the violation
information
described
on
Civil
Infraction
Ticket
Number
WC00199786, issued August 12, 2014
for the property located at 15402
Macauley Road and failure to comply with Section 551.111(B) in the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
No appeals were adopted
approved on December 1, 2014.

and

Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the append-

ed schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2014
File No. 136-14 — Tire Repair Road
Service, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Works, as authorized
by Section 131.17 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2014 AT
10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, CONFERENCE ROOM 8,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 137-14 — Cab and Chassis
With Digger Derrick Body and
Related Equipment, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department
of
Public
Works, as authorized by Ordinance No. 752-12, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 4, 2012.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2014 AT
10:30 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, CONFERENCE ROOM 8,
601 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 138-14 — Labor and Materials Necessary to Maintain and
Repair Heating, Ventilation and
Air Conditioning Systems (ReBid), for the various Division of
Port Control, Department of Port
Control, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1189-14, passed by the

1780

December 3, 2014
Council of the City of Cleveland,
October 13, 2014.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2014 AT
10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S CENTRAL RECEIVING
BUILDING, 19451 FIVE POINTS
ROAD, CLEVELAND, OH 441353193.
November 26, 2014 and December 3, 2014
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 18, 2014
File No. 135-14 — Pap and HPV
Testing Services, for the Division
of Health Administration, Department of Public Health, as authorized by Section 181.101 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10,
2014 AT 11:00 A.M. LOCATED AT
THE MCCAFFERTY HEALTH
CENTER, 4242 LORAIN AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 140-14 — Fence Installation,
Maintenance and/or Repair, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 567-13, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, May 6,
2013.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2014
AT 10:00 A.M. THE TOM L.
JOHNSON BUILDING, CONFERENCE ROOM A, 1300 LAKESIDE
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
AVENUE,
44114.
November 26, 2014 and December 3, 2014
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 19, 2014
File No. 141-14 — Street Lighting
Fixtures, Poles and Materials, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section
129,26 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2014 AT
11:00 A.M. THE TOM L. JOHNSON
BUILDING, CONFERENCE ROOM
A, 1300 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 142-14 — Labor and Materials Necessary to Perform Tree
Trimming Services for the Various Divisions of the Department
of Public Utilities, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 86313, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, August 14,
2013.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2014 AT
10:00 A.M. THE TOM L. JOHNSON
BUILDING, CONFERENCE ROOM
A, 1300 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
November 26, 2014 and December 3, 2014

December 3, 2014
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 19, 2014
File No. 139-14 — Lorain Avenue
Reconstruction West 150th Street
to West 117th Street CUY-10-10.17
PID 84289, for the Division of
Engineering
and
Construction,
Department of The Mayor’s Office
of Capital Projects, as authorized
by Ordinance No. 648-13, passed
by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, May 20, 2013.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF SEVENTY FIVE
DOLLARS ($75.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY,
DECEMBER
11,
2014 AT 10:00 A.M. THE CLEVELAND CITY HALL, ROOM 514,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
November 26, 2014, December 3, 2014 and
December 10, 2014
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7, 2015
File No. 143-14 — J.I.T. Office Supplies, Furniture and Equipment
for the Various Divisions, for the
various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, as
authorized
by
Ordinance
No.
1191-14, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, September
29, 2014.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 16, 2014
AT 3:30 P.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, ROOM 514, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OH
44114.
December 3, 2014 and December 10, 2014

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 1574-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of location of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit to 2710 Lorain
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of location of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from 13101 Shaker,
LLC, DBA Grotto Wine Bar, 13101
Shaker
Square,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44120, Permanent Number 6548707 to
Burlap, Inc., DBA The Supperclub,
2710 Lorain Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio

The City Record
44113, Permanent Number 1116014;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
location of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit
from 13101 Shaker, LLC, DBA Grotto
Wine Bar, 13101 Shaker Square, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent Number
6548707 to Burlap, Inc., DBA The Supperclub, 2710 Lorain Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number
1116014; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted November 24, 2014.
Effective November 26, 2014.

Res. No. 1575-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of liquor license of a
D5 Liquor Permit to 1220 Huron Road,
East.

1781

33
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of liquor license of a D5 Liquor
Permit from 18 Euc Lastchance, Inc.,
1800 Euclid Avenue, 1st floor, Unit
4, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
2455418
to
18
Euc
Number
Lastchance, Inc., 1220 Huron Road,
East, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number 24554180001; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a D5 Liquor Permit
from 18 Euc Lastchance, Inc., 1800
Euclid Avenue, 1st floor, Unit 4, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number
2455418 to 18 Euc Lastchance, Inc.,
1220 Huron Road, East, Cleveland,
Ohio
44115,
Permanent
Number
24554180001; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted November 24, 2014.
Effective November 26, 2014.

The City Record

34
Res. No. 1576-14.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution designating East 118th Street in between
Wade Park Avenue and Euclid
Avenue in University Circle a residential permit parking area.
Whereas, the Director of Public
Safety has received verified petitions by residents living in eighty
percent (80%) of the living units in
the
area
of
East
118th
Street
between Wade Park Avenue and
Euclid Avenue; and
Whereas, the Director of Public
Safety has completed a survey of
the above mentioned street and the
surrounding areas, has held a public hearing, and has determined
that said residential street is overcrowded with commuter vehicles
resulting in a lack of curbside

December 3, 2014

parking available to residents near
their residences; and
Whereas, the Director of Public
Safety
has
therefore
determined
East 118th Street between Wade
Park Avenue and Euclid Avenue eligible for residential permit parking
and has recommended to Council
that it designate said street as a residential permit parking area; and
Whereas, Council Member Conwell
concurs in the Director’s recommendation; and
Whereas,
East
118th
Street
between Wade Park Avenue and
Euclid Avenue has otherwise met
the objective criteria set forth in
Chapter 461 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public

peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
designates East 118th Street between
Wade Park Avenue and Euclid
Avenue a residential permit parking
area, twenty-four (24) hours per day,
seven (7) days per week.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted November 24, 2014.
Effective November 26, 2014.

Ord. No. 1030-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 543.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 1271-07, passed August 8, 2007, relating to sewerage service rates within Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the rates, rules, and regulations of the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for
sewerage services, fixed by the Board of Control by Resolution No. _____________, adopted ______________, are
approved.
Section 2. That Section 543.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
1271-07, passed August 8, 2007, is amended to read as follows:
Section 543.02 Sewerage Service Rates Within Cleveland
(a) Regular and Homestead Rates.
Sewer Rate Schedule
Regular Rates
Minimum Charge
1st MCF

$12.53
$12.53

Homestead Rates
Minimum Charge
1st MCF

$7.43
$7.43

(b) Special Homestead Rate. Homesteads that are single family residential property owned and occupied by a
person sixty-five (65) years of age or older whose total annual income does not exceed the limits listed below
or homesteads that are single family residential property owned and occupied by a person permanently and totally disabled whose total annual income does not exceed the limits listed below may be eligible for the special
homestead rate. The Director of Public Utilities shall prescribe the application form for the homestead rates and
have final approval of all applications.
Income Limits:
Year
2014
2015

Total Annual Income
$31,500
$32,000

(c) Fixed Charge Based Upon Meter Size
2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

1/2" to 1"
1 1/2” to 2"
3" to 4"
6"
8"
12"

$12.00
$30.00
$99.00
$198.00
$300.00
$450.00

$12.00
$30.00
$99.00
$198.00
$300.00
$450.00

$15.00
$40.00
$115.00
$225.00
$325.00
$500.00

$15.00
$40.00
$115.00
$225.00
$325.00
$500.00

$18.00
$55.00
$140.00
$260.00
$370.00
$550.00

“Homestead

$7.20

$7.20

$9.00

$9.00

$10.80”.

1782

December 3, 2014

The City Record

35

(d) The sewerage service charges within the City shall be increased to meet the funding requirements of the
Ohio Water Development Authority.
(e) Nothing contained in this section shall be held to authorize or require the payment of any sewer rental
charge by any tax-supported department of the City.
(f) All rates shall be effective on January 1 of each year.
Section 3. That Section 543.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
1271-07, passed August 8, 2007, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 24, 2014.
Effective November 26, 2014.

Ord. No. 1454-14.
By Councilmembers Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2013-032 with LHD &
Associates, Inc. for federal government lobbying services necessary to
assist with airport-related issues.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1714-12, passed December 3, 2012, the Director of Port Control entered into Contract No. PS 2013032 with LHD & Associates, Inc. for
federal government lobbying services
necessary to assist with airport-related issues; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1714-12
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew on
this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to exercise the
first option to renew Contract No. PS
2013-032 with LHD & Associates, Inc.
for an additional two-year period for
federal government lobbying services
necessary to assist with airport-related issues. The cost of the option shall
not exceed $108,000 per year and is
payable from funds appropriated in
2015 and 2016 for this purpose. This
ordinance constitutes the additional
legislative authority required by
Ordinance No. 1714-12 to exercise this
option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 24, 2014.
Effective November 26, 2014.

Ord. No. 1455-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the second option to renew
Contract No. PS 2013-025 with Peregrine Advisors, LLC to provide financial consulting services for the various divisions of the Department of
Port Control.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 816-12, passed June 4,
2012, the Director of Port Control

entered into Contract No. PS 2013-025
with Peregrine Advisors, LLC to provide financial consulting services for
the various divisions of the Department of Port Control; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 816-12
requires further legislation before
exercising the second option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to exercise the
second option to renew Contract No.
PS 2013-025 with Peregrine Advisors,
LLC for an additional one-year period
in an amount not to exceed $300,000, to
provide financial consulting services
for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control. This ordinance constitutes the additional legislative authority required by Ordinance No. 816-12 to exercise this
option. (RQS 3001, RL 2014-122)
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 24, 2014.
Effective November 26, 2014.

Ord. No. 1456-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the second option to renew
Contract No. PS 2013-031 with Seabury
Airline Planning Group, LLC to provide airline and cargo consultant services for the Department of Port Control.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 535-12, passed May 14,
2012, as amended by Ordinance No.
1456-12, passed November 12, 2012, the
Director of Port Control entered into
Contract No. PS 2013-031 with Seabury
Airline Planning Group, LLC to provide airline and cargo consultant services for the Department of Port Control; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 535-12, as
amended, requires further legislation
before exercising the second option to
renew on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

1783

Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to exercise the
second option to renew Contract No.
PS 2013-031 for an additional year
with Seabury Airline Planning Group,
LLC to provide airline and cargo consultant services for the Department of
Port Control. This ordinance constitutes
the
additional
legislative
authority required by Ordinance No.
535-12, as amended, to exercise this
option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 24, 2014.
Effective November 26, 2014.

Ord. No. 1458-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more contracts without competitive bidding with Ameribridge, LLC, for the purchase of one or
more new or refurbished passenger
boarding bridges, including but not
limited to associated labor, equipment, materials, or services, and for
training, maintenance, and inspection
for a period not to exceed two years,
for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council determines that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Ameribridge, LLC (“Ameribridge”).
Therefore the Director of Port Control
is authorized to make one or more
written contracts with Ameribridge
for the purchase of one or more new or
refurbished
passenger
boarding
bridges, including but not limited to
associated labor, equipment, materials, or services, and for training,
maintenance, and inspection for a
period not to exceed two years, on the
basis of its proposal dated October 20,
2014, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control.

36
Section 2. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Port Control may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 3. The contract or contracts
authorized shall not exceed $750,000
and shall be paid from Fund Nos. 60
SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60 SF 106, 60 SF 112,
60 SF 114, 60 SF 115, 60 SF 116, 60 SF
117, 60 SF 119, 60 SF 121, 60 SF 122, 60
SF 126, 60 SF 128, 60 SF 130, 60 SF 141,
60 SF 160, and passenger facility
charges, and the fund or funds to
which are credited the proceeds from
any grants issued for this purpose,
Request No. RQS 3001, RL 2013-099.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 24, 2014.
Effective November 26, 2014.

Ord. No. 1462-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
Constant Aviation, LLC for the lease
of hangar space known as Bay 3 of
the Primary Hangar and the adjacent
ramp area at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, for the operation of an aircraft maintenance facility, for the Department of Port Control,
for a period of two years, with three
one-year options to renew, the first
and second of which are exercisable
by the Director of Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into a
Lease Agreement (“Lease”) with Constant Aviation, LLC (“Lessee”) for
use and occupancy of approximately
26,208 square feet of hangar space
known as Bay 3 of the Primary
Hangar and the use and occupancy of
approximately 32,760 square feet of
the adjacent ramp area at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport (collectively, the “Leased Premises”) for
operation of an aircraft maintenance
facility.
Section 2. The term of the Lease
shall be for a two year period, with
three one-year options to renew, the
first and second of which are exercisable by the Director of Port Control.
The third one-year option to renew
may not be exercised without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the per annum
rental rate shall be $121,867.20,
payable in monthly installments of
$10,155.60. The annual rental rate is
based on a per square foot rate of
$3.75 for the use of the hangar area
and $.72 per square foot rate for use of
the ramp space, which is fair market

The City Record
rental value as established by an
independent third party appraisal.
Section 4. That the Lease may
authorize Lessee to make improvements to the Leased Premises subject
to approval of the Director of Port
Control and appropriate City agencies and officials.
Section 5. That the Director of Port
Control, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials will
have the authority to execute any
other documents and certificates, and
may take any other actions that may
be necessary or appropriate to implement this ordinance.
Section 6. That the Lease authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 24, 2014.
Effective November 26, 2014.

Ord. No. 1463-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
Constant Aviation, LLC for the lease
of hangar space in Building 211 and
the adjacent ramp area at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, for
the operation of an aircraft maintenance facility, for the Department of
Port Control, for a period of two
years, with three one-year options to
renew, the first and second of which
are exercisable by the Director of
Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into a
Lease Agreement (“Lease”) with Constant Aviation, LLC (“Lessee”) for
use and occupancy of approximately
20,069 square feet of hangar space
generally known as Building 211 and
the use and occupancy of approximately 21,080 square feet of the adjacent ramp area at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (collectively,
the “Leased Premises”) for operation
of an aircraft maintenance facility.
Section 2. The term of the Lease
shall be for a two year period, with
three one-year options to renew, the
first and second of which are exercisable by the Director of Port Control.
The third one-year option to renew
may not be exercised without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the per annum
rental rate shall be $89,031.52, payable
in monthly installments of $7,419.29.
The annual rental rate is based on a
per square foot rate of $3.68 for the
use of the hangar area and $.72 per
square foot rate for use of the ramp
space, which is fair market rental
value as established by an independent third party appraisal.
Section 4. That the Lease may
authorize Lessee to make improvements to the Leased Premises subject

1784

December 3, 2014
to approval of the Director of Port
Control and appropriate City agencies and officials.
Section 5. That the Director of Port
Control, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials will
have the authority to execute any
other documents and certificates, and
may take any other actions that may
be necessary or appropriate to implement this ordinance.
Section 6. That the Lease authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 24, 2014.
Effective November 26, 2014.

Ord. No. 1508-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into an amendment to Contract No. CT
1505-PS 2011-054 with Clark Schaefer
Hackett for professional services necessary to perform an assessment and
to express the opinion of the City
regarding the 2014 financial statements and to complete two statements
of Auditing Standards for the Divisions of Water and Taxation.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 132210, passed October 18, 2010, this Council authorized Contract No. CT 1505-PS
2011-054 with Clark Schaefer Hackett
(“Clark Schaefer”) for professional
services necessary to perform an
assessment and to express the opinion of the City regarding the 2010
financial statements and to complete
two statements of Auditing Standards
for the Divisions of Water and Taxation; and
Whereas, in addition to authorizing
an initial contract for one year, Ordinance No. 1322-10, also authorized
three one-year options to renew, all of
which were exercised; and
Whereas, the State Auditor selects
independent firms to provide these
services through the State of Ohio’s
proposal process, and through that
process selected Clark Schaefer; and
Whereas, the City accepted the
State’s selection, and Clark Schaefer
has performed services under Ord. No.
1322-10 for audit years 2010, 2011, 2012,
and 2013; and
Whereas, the State has requested
that the City enter into a contract
amendment with Clark Schaefer
Hackett to perform similar services
for audit year 2014; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into an
amendment to Contract No. CT 1505PS 2011-054 with Clark Schaefer
Hackett for professional services necessary to perform an assessment and
to express the opinion of the City
regarding the 2014 financial statements and to complete two statements

December 3, 2014
of Auditing Standards for the Divisions of Water and Taxation. The cost
of the amendment shall be paid from
funds appropriated for this purpose in
budget year 2015.
Section 2. That the contract amendment shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 24, 2014.
Effective November 26, 2014.

Ord. No. 1524-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to employ
one or more professional consultants
to assess and implement various citywide safety programs and other related services; and to enter into various
written
standard
purchase
and
requirement contracts needed in connection with the programs, for the
various divisions of City government,
for a period of two years, with two
one-year options to renew, the first of
which requires additional legislative
authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to assess
and implement various city-wide safety programs and other related services, including but not limited to,
implementing a safety-management
ordering database, vehicle monitoring system, and other related services.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Finance from a list of
qualified consultants available for
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Finance for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
and approved and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one or
more written standard purchase contracts and written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,

The City Record
1976, the period of requirements to be
determined by the director, for the
necessary items of materials, equipment, supplies, and services necessary to implement the programs,
including labor, maintenance, materials, and training, if necessary, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the various divisions of City
government. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines.
Section 3. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 4. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Finance may sign all
documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 5. That the cost of the contracts and other expenditures authorized shall be paid from funds appropriated for this purpose in budget
years 2015 and 2016.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 24, 2014.
Effective November 26, 2014.

Ord. No. 1567-14.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Public Works to enter into an agreement with Ohio Elite Football, Inc. for
the Youth Sports Football Recreation
Program through the use of Ward 9
Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Public Works be
authorized to enter into an agreement
with Ohio Elite Football, Inc., for the
Youth Sports Football Recreation
Program for the public purpose of providing organized recreational sports
activities to city of Cleveland youth

1785

37
through the use of Ward 9 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $5,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 24, 2014.
Effective November 26, 2014.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, December 1, 2014
10:30 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee: Present: Cimperman, Chair;
Mitchell, Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell,
Cummins, J. Johnson. Authorized
Absence: Cleveland.
2:00 p.m.
Transportation Committee; Development, Planning and Sustainability
Committee; & Finance Committee:
Present in Transportation: Keane,
Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Conwell, J.
Johnson. Authorized Absence: K.
Johnson, Reed, Sweeney. Pro tempore: Cleveland, Mitchell. Present in
DP&S: Brancatelli, Chair; Cleveland,
Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins,
Dow,
Pruitt,
Zone.
Present
in
Finance: Kelley, Chair; Cleveland,
Vice Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane,
Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
Tuesday, December 2, 2014
9:30 a.m.
Development, Planning & Sustainability Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair;
Cimperman, Cummins, Dow, Pruitt.
Authorized Absence: Zone.
Wednesday, December 3, 2014
10:00 a.m.
Transportation
Committee:
Present: Keane, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair;
Conwell,
K.
Johnson,
Sweeney.
Authorized Absence: J. Johnson,
Reed.
Thursday, December 4, 2014
1:00 p.m.
Safety Committee: CANCELLED.

The City Record

38

December 3, 2014

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Communication and Public Relations Consulting Services — Mita Marketing, LLC (O 1598-14)
Computer Technology Projects — Solar Systems Networking Inc. (O 1599-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting services for utility-related matters — The Project Group (O 1602-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financial Consulting and Auditing Services — Guy Gadomski, CPA (O 1601-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Operation and Sustainability Plan implementation — Cobalt Group, Inc. (O 1597-14) . . . . . . . . .
Vacant and Abandoned Property Action Council (VAPAC), demolition bond, reforestation,
demolition funding, rehabilitation, and code enforcement — Western Reserve Land
Conservancy d/b/a Thriving Communities Institute(O 1600-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Youth Sports Football Recreation Program — Ohio Elite Football, Inc. — Works Department
(Ward 09 CRF) (O 1567-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1772
1772
1773
1772
1772

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1772
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1785

AIDS
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2015-2017 — Academy of Educational Development —
Grants — Ohio Department of Health (O 1345-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1774

Appropriations
Appropriations — additional — $ 200,000 — Enterprise Funds — Sinking Fund Commission —
Finance Department (O 1594-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765
Appropriations — Temporary — Year 2015 — Finance Department (O 1595-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1766

Board of Control — Capital Projects Office
Architectural/Engineering services for Rehabilitation and New Construction of Public
Facilities of Public Works, Public Safety, and Public Health Design Package 1:
Various Recreation Center and Park Improvements — per Ord. 732-14 to
Osborn Engineering — Depts. of Public Works, Public Safety, Public Health
(BOC Res. 538-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777
Architectural/Engineering services for Rehabilitation and New Construction of Public
Facilities of Public Works, Public Safety, and Public Health Design Package 2:
Various Public Facility Improvements — per Ord. 733-14 to R. E. Warner & Associates,
Inc. — Depts. of Public Works, Public Safety, Public Health (BOC Res. 539-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777
Architectural/Engineering services for Rehabilitation and New Construction of Public
Facilities of Public Works, Public Safety, and Public Health Design Package 3:
Various Safety Facility Improvements — per Ord. 734-14 to DLZ Architecture, Inc. —
Depts. of Public Works, Public Safety, Public Health (BOC Res. 540-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District — various parcels on scattered sites (Ward
5) (BOC Res. 542-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1778

Board of Control — Finance Department
Towpath Trail Project, Stage 3 — purchase parcels from Edward Reynolds per Ord. 1591-13 —
Division of Purchases and Supplies, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 541-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777

Board of Control — Land Acquisition
Towpath Trail Project, Stage 3 — purchase parcels from Edward Reynolds per Ord. 1591-13 —
Division of Purchases and Supplies, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 541-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District — various parcels on scattered sites (Ward
5) (BOC Res. 542-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1778

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Architectural/Engineering services for Rehabilitation and New Construction of Public
Facilities of Public Works, Public Safety, and Public Health Design Package 1:
Various Recreation Center and Park Improvements — per Ord. 732-14 to
Osborn Engineering — Office of Capitol Projects, Depts. of Public Works, Public
Safety, Public Health (BOC Res. 538-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777

1786

December 3, 2014

The City Record

39

Architectural/Engineering services for Rehabilitation and New Construction of Public
Facilities of Public Works, Public Safety, and Public Health Design Package 2:
Various Public Facility Improvements — per Ord. 733-14 to R. E. Warner & Associates,
Inc. — Office of Capitol Projects, Depts. of Public Works, Public Safety,
Public Health (BOC Res. 539-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777
Architectural/Engineering services for Rehabilitation and New Construction of Public
Facilities of Public Works, Public Safety, and Public Health Design Package 3:
Various Safety Facility Improvements — per Ord. 734-14 to DLZ Architecture, Inc. —
Office of Capitol Projects, Depts. of Public Works, Public Safety, Public
Health (BOC Res. 540-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777

Board of Control — Public Health Department
Architectural/Engineering services for Rehabilitation and New Construction of Public
Facilities of Public Works, Public Safety, and Public Health Design Package 1:
Various Recreation Center and Park Improvements — per Ord. 732-14 to
Osborn Engineering — Office of Capitol Projects, Depts. of Public Works, Public
Safety (BOC Res. 538-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777
Architectural/Engineering services for Rehabilitation and New Construction of Public
Facilities of Public Works, Public Safety, and Public Health Design Package 2:
Various Public Facility Improvements — per Ord. 733-14 to R. E. Warner & Associates,
Inc. — Office of Capitol Projects, Depts. of Public Works, Public Safety (BOC Res. 539-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777
Architectural/Engineering services for Rehabilitation and New Construction of Public
Facilities of Public Works, Public Safety, and Public Health Design Package 3:
Various Safety Facility Improvements — per Ord. 734-14 to DLZ Architecture, Inc. —
Office of Capitol Projects, Depts. of Public Works, Public Safety (BOC Res. 540-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Architectural/Engineering services for Rehabilitation and New Construction of Public
Facilities of Public Works, Public Safety, and Public Health Design Package 1:
Various Recreation Center and Park Improvements — per Ord. 732-14 to
Osborn Engineering — Office of Capitol Projects, Depts. of Public Works, Public
Health (BOC Res. 538-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777
Architectural/Engineering services for Rehabilitation and New Construction of Public
Facilities of Public Works, Public Safety, and Public Health Design Package 2:
Various Public Facility Improvements — per Ord. 733-14 to R. E. Warner & Associates,
Inc. — Office of Capitol Projects, Depts. of Public Works, Public Health (BOC Res. 539-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777
Architectural/Engineering services for Rehabilitation and New Construction of Public
Facilities of Public Works, Public Safety, and Public Health Design Package 3:
Various Safety Facility Improvements — per Ord. 734-14 to DLZ Architecture, Inc. —
Office of Capitol Projects, Depts. of Public Works, Public Health (BOC Res. 540-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Architectural/Engineering services for Rehabilitation and New Construction of Public
Facilities of Public Works, Public Safety, and Public Health Design Package 1:
Various Recreation Center and Park Improvements — per Ord. 732-14 to
Osborn Engineering — Office of Capitol Projects, Depts. of Public Safety,
Public Health (BOC Res. 538-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Architectural/Engineering services for Rehabilitation and New Construction of Public
Facilities of Public Works, Public Safety, and Public Health Design Package 2:
Various Public Facility Improvements — per Ord. 733-14 to R. E. Warner & Associates,
Inc. — Office of Capitol Projects, Depts. of Public Safety, Public Health (BOC Res. 539-14)
Architectural/Engineering services for Rehabilitation and New Construction of Public
Facilities of Public Works, Public Safety, and Public Health Design Package 3:
Various Safety Facility Improvements — per Ord. 734-14 to DLZ Architecture, Inc. —
Office of Capitol Projects, Depts. of Public Safety, Public Health (BOC Res. 540-14) . . . . . . .
Towpath Trail Project, Stage 3 — purchase parcels from Edward Reynolds per Ord. 1591-13 —
Division of Purchases and Supplies (BOC Res. 541-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Towpath Trail Project, Stage 3 — purchase parcels from Edward Reynolds per Ord. 1591-13 —
Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 541-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777

Board Of Education
Urging Ohio State Board of Education to allow more community input before eliminate the
“5 of 8” rule (R 1604-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1773

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Bridge Avenue, 3000 (Ward 3) – WSCH, LLC, owner — appeal heard on 12/1/14 (Cal. 14-212) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1779
Buckeye Road, 12915 (Ward 6) – Buckeye-FDBTS, LLC, owner — appeal postponed to 1/12/15
on 12/1/14 (Cal. 14-211) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1780

1787

The City Record

40

December 3, 2014

East 125th Street, 1310 (Ward 9) – Reginald Phillips, owner — appeal postponed to 1/5/15
on 12/1/14 (Cal. 14-208) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jay Avenue, 2925 (Ward 3) – Patrick Sullivan, owner — appeal heard on 12/1/14 (Cal. 14-209) .
Macauley Road, 15402 (Ward 8) – Michael Dubson, owner — appeal heard on 11/24/14
(Cal. 14-204) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 3610 (Ward 7) – 3620 Superior Avenue, LLC, owner — appeal withdrawn on
12/1/14 (Cal. 14-213) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street (Unit 3), 1810 (Ward 3) – Tom Gillespie, owner — appeal heard on
12/1/14 (Cal. 14-210) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 2012 (Ward 3) – MRN, owner — appeal to be heard on 12/22/14 (Cal. 14-202) .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1780
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1779
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1780
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1780
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1779
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1779

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Broadway Avenue, 5437, a.k.a. 3328 East 55th Street (Ward 5) – 4 Ever Social Club, owner —
appeal to be heard on 12/22/14 (Cal. 14-227) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professor Avenue, 2173 (Ward 3) – Sutton Builders, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on
12/22/14 (Cal. 14-221) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Triskett Road, 14428 (Ward 17) – St. Mel Church, owner — appeal to be heard on 12/22/14
(Cal. 14-228) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 11th Street, 2232 (front) and 2236 (rear) (Ward 3) – Micro House Cleveland, owner —
appeal to be heard on 12/22/14 (Cal. 14-223) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th Street, 4320 (Ward 16) – Lindsey & Josephine Smith, owners — appeal to
be heard on 12/22/14 (Cal. 14-230) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1778
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1778
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1778
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1778
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1779

Bonds
General Obligation Refunding Bonds — Finance Department (O 1591-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1753
Refunding Bonds — 2015 Subordinate Lien Income Tax — Finance Department (O 1592-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1759

Capital Projects
East 112th St. (Primrose Ave. and Superior Ave.) — secondary and honorary designation of
Steve Harvey Way — City Planning Commission (Ward 09) (O 1557-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 38th Pl. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 05) (O 1589-14) . . . . . . . . .
East 97th St. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 06) (O 1588-14). . . . . . . . . .
Infrastructure capital improvements — apply — District One Public Works Integrating
Committee — rehabilitation of U.S. Route 42, Scranton Road/Carter Road, Clark
Avenue, and East 152nd Street (O 1348-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Broadview Rd. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 12) (O 1439-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Community College Ave. — consent and cause payment — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 05) (O 1440-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on East Blvd. and Ford Dr. — consent and cause payment — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 09) (O 1441-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Harvard Ave. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 01) (O 1442-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Prospect Ave. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 03) (O 1443-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on West 117th St. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 11) (O 1444-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on West Blvd. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 11) (O 1445-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Santa Shuffle — permit — Dec. 13 — Hermes Sports and Events (Ward 03) (O 1596-14) . . . .
Turney Rd. (Warner Rd. to the Cleveland south corporation line) — resurfacing — consent —
Cuyahoga County (Ward 02) (O 1349-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1752
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1773
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775

City Council
Communication and Public Relations Consulting Services — Mita Marketing, LLC (O 1598-14)
Computer Technology Projects — Solar Systems Networking Inc. (O 1599-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financial Consulting and Auditing Services — Guy Gadomski, CPA (O 1601-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Operation and Sustainability Plan implementation — Cobalt Group, Inc. (O 1597-14) . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1772
1772
1772
1772

City of Cleveland Bids
Cab and Chassis with Digger Derrick Body and Related Equipment — Department of
Public Works — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 752-12 — bid
due December 12, 2014 (advertised 11/26/2014 and 12/3/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fence Installation, Maintenance and/or Repair — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 567-13 — bid due December 18, 2014
(advertised 11/26/2014 and 12/3/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
J.I.T. Office Supplies, Furniture, and Equipment — Department of Finance — per Ord.
1191-14 — bid due January 7, 2015 (advertised 12/3/2014 and 12/10/2014). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Labor and Materials Necessary to Maintain and Repair Heating, Ventilation and Air
Conditioning Systems (Re-bid) — Department of Port Control — per Ord. 1189-14 — bid
due December 12, 2014 (advertised 11/26/2014 and 12/3/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1788

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1780

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1780
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1781

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1780

December 3, 2014

The City Record

41

Labor and Materials Necessary to Perform Tree Trimming Services — Department of Public
Utilities — Division of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 863-13 — bid due December
19, 2014 (advertised 11/26/2014 and 12/3/2014). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue Reconstruction West 150th Street to West 117th Street CUY-10-10.17 PID
84289 — Office of Capital Projects — Division of Engineering and Construction — per
Ord. 648-13 — bid due December 19, 2014 (advertised 11/26/2014 and 12/3/2014
and 12/10/2014). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pap and HPV Testing Services — Department of Public Health —
Division of Health — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due December 18, 2014 (advertised
11/26/2014 and 12/3/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Street Lighting Fixtures, Poles and Materials — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Cleveland Public Power — per C.O. Sec. 129.26 — bid due December 19, 2014
(advertised 11/26/2014 and 12/3/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tire Repair Road Service — Department of Public Works — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 — bid due December 12, 2014 (advertised 11/26/2014
and 12/3/2014). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1780

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1781

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1780

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1780

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1780

City Planning Commission
East 105th / East 93rd Transportation Corridor Project — Northeast Ohio Areawide
Coordinating Agency — Federal Highway Administration — TIGER Program
(FY 2014) — Grants (O 1590-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 112th St. (Primrose Ave. and Superior Ave.) — secondary and honorary designation of
Steve Harvey Way — Capital Projects Office (Ward 09) (O 1557-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 38th Pl. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 05) (O 1589-14) . . . . . . . . . .
East 97th St. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 06) (O 1588-14) . . . . . . . . . .
Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) Districts (drive-thru lanes) — Section 343.23
(remove sunset) (O 1469-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1752
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1752
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776

Clerk Of Council
Communication and Public Relations Consulting Services — Mita Marketing, LLC (O 1598-14) .
Computer Technology Projects — Solar Systems Networking Inc. (O 1599-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting services for utility-related matters — The Project Group (O 1602-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financial Consulting and Auditing Services — Guy Gadomski, CPA (O 1601-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Operation and Sustainability Plan implementation — Cobalt Group, Inc. (O 1597-14) . . . . . . . . . .
Vacant and Abandoned Property Action Council (VAPAC), demolition
bond, reforestation, demolition funding, rehabilitation, and code enforcement —
Western Reserve Land Conservancy d/b/a Thriving Communities Institute — agreement
(O 1600-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1772
1772
1773
1772
1772

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1772

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (CHIA)
Lease hangar space for aircraft maintenance facility (Building 211) — Constant Aviation,
LLC (O 1463-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1784
Lease hanger space for aircraft maintenance facility (Bay 3) — Constant Aviation,
LLC (O 1462-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1784
Passenger boarding bridges (new or refurbished) — contracts — Ameribridge, LLC (O 1458-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1783

Cleveland Housing Network (CHN)
Discount affordability program — professional services — contracts — Utilities Department —
Water Division (O 1516-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776

Cleveland Municipal Court
Legal services to defend indigents — Cuyahoga County Public Defender Commission —
Finance Department (O 1520-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776

Cleveland Public Power (CPP)
Tax remittances — FY 2015 and 2016 — General Fund — Finance Department (O 1350-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775
Roofs, roof systems and appurtenances — Water Division — Water Pollution Control Division
(O 1521-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776

Codified Ordinances
Excessively Large Quantity of Waste Disposal — Civil Infractions — Amend Section 551.05,
551.111 and 551.991 (O 974-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1774
Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) Districts (drive-thru lanes) — Section 343.23
(remove sunset) — City Planning Commission (O 1469-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776
Sewerage Service Rates Within Cleveland — amend Section 543.02 (O 1030-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1782

1789

The City Record

42

December 3, 2014

Community Development
Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration or Lead Hazard Control Grant — Healthy Homes
Grant — U.S. Department of HUD — professional services for grant writing
services (O 1418-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775

Condolences
Collier, David (R 1605-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751
Smith, Tony (R 1606-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751

Contracts
Air and cargo service consulting and advising services — renew Contract No. PS 2013-031 —
Seabury Airline Planning Group, LLC (O 1456-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. 425-14 — Emerald Research Park, Ltd., — amend Contract No. 50034 — Oatey
Company — Enterprise Zone Agreement (O 1509-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City-wide Safety Programs — professional services — Finance Department (O 1524-14) . . . . . . . .
Communication and Public Relations Consulting Services — Mita Marketing, LLC (O 1598-14) . .
Computer Technology Projects — Solar Systems Networking Inc. (O 1599-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting services for utility-related matters — The Project Group (O 1602-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Discount affordability program — Cleveland Housing Network — professional services —
Utilities Department — Water Division (O 1516-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 105th / East 93rd Transportation Corridor Project — Northeast Ohio
Areawide Coordinating Agency — Federal Highway Administration — TIGER Program
(FY 2014) — Grants — City Planning Commission (O 1590-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financial Consulting and Auditing Services — Guy Gadomski, CPA (O 1601-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financial consulting services — renew Contract No. PS 2013-025 — Peregrine Advisors, LLC
(O 1455-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financial statement, 2014 — independent opinion — Clark Schaefer Hackett — Taxation
Division — Utilities Department — Water Division (O 1508-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Infrastructure capital improvements — apply — District One Public Works Integrating
Committee — rehabilitation of U.S. Route 42, Scranton Road/Carter Road, Clark
Avenue, and East 152nd Street — Capital Projects Office (O 1348-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration or Lead Hazard Control Grant — Healthy Homes
Grant — U.S. Department of HUD — professional services for grant writing
services (O 1418-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Legal services to defend indigents — Cleveland Municipal Court — Cuyahoga County Public
Defender Commission — Finance Department (O 1520-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lobbying services — airport matters — renew Contract No. PS 2013-032 — LHD & Associates,
Inc. (O 1454-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Operation and Sustainability Plan implementation — Cobalt Group, Inc. (O 1597-14) . . . . . . . . . . .
Passenger boarding bridges (new or refurbished) — contracts — Ameribridge, LLC (O 1458-14).
Roofs, roof systems and appurtenances — Cleveland Public Power Division — Water Division —
Water Pollution Control Division (O 1521-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Title X Program — Ohio Department of Health — Medicaid program payments — Grants
(O 1384-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Turney Rd. (Warner Rd. to the Cleveland south corporation line) — resurfacing — consent —
Cuyahoga County (Ward 02) (O 1349-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vacant and Abandoned Property Action Council (VAPAC), demolition bond, reforestation,
demolition funding, rehabilitation, and code enforcement — Western Reserve Land
Conservancy d/b/a Thriving Communities Institute — agreement (O 1600-14) . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1783
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1776
1785
1772
1772
1773

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1752
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1772
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1783
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1784

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1783
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1772
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1783
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1772

Cuyahoga County
Mental Health and Substance Abuse Prevention Program, 2015 — Cuyahoga County Alcohol
Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board — Grants — Health Department
(O 1383-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775
Turney Rd. (Warner Rd. to the Cleveland south corporation line) — resurfacing — consent
(Ward 02) (O 1349-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775

Economic Development Department
Amend Ord. 425-14 — Emerald Research Park, Ltd., — amend Contract No. 50034 — Oatey
Company — Enterprise Zone Agreement (O 1509-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776

Enterprise Funds
Appropriations — additional — $ 200,000 — Enterprise Funds — Sinking Fund Commission —
Finance Department (O 1594-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765
Fund Transfers — $ 2,940,000 — General Fund — $ 800,000 — Special Revenue Fund — $
10,850,000 — Enterprise Fund (O 1593-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763

Enterprise Zone Agreement
Amend Ord. 425-14 — Emerald Research Park, Ltd., — amend Contract No. 50034 — Oatey
Company (O 1509-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776

1790

December 3, 2014

The City Record

43

Fees
Sewerage Service Rates Within Cleveland — amend Section 543.02 (O 1030-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1782

Finance Department
Appropriations — additional — $ 200,000 — Enterprise Funds — Sinking Fund Commission
(O 1594-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Appropriations — Temporary — Year 2015 (O 1595-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City-wide Safety Programs — professional services contracts (O 1524-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Public Power tax remittances — FY 2015 and 2016 — General Fund (O 1350-14) . . .
Financial statement, 2014 — independent opinion — Clark Schaefer Hackett — Taxation
Division — Utilities Department — Water Division (O 1508-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fund Transfers — $ 2,940,000 — General Fund — $ 800,000 — Special Revenue Fund —
$10,850,000 — Enterprise Fund (O 1593-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General Obligation Refunding Bonds (O 1591-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Legal services to defend indigents — Cleveland Municipal Court — Cuyahoga County Public
Defender Commission (O 1520-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Refunding Bonds — 2015 Subordinate Lien Income Tax (O 1592-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1765
1766
1785
1775

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1784
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1753
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1759

General Fund
Fund Transfers — $ 2,940,000 — General Fund — $ 800,000 — Special Revenue Fund —
$10,850,000 — Enterprise Fund (O 1593-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763

Grants
East 105th / East 93rd Transportation Corridor Project — Northeast Ohio Areawide
Coordinating Agency — Federal Highway Administration — TIGER Program
(FY 2014) — City Planning Commission (O 1590-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2015-2017 — Academy of Educational Development — Ohio
Department of Health (O 1345-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Healthy Weight Program, 2014-15 — Health Department — Ohio Department of Health
(O 1346-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Infrastructure capital improvements — apply — District One Public Works Integrating
Committee — rehabilitation of U.S. Route 42, Scranton Road/Carter Road, Clark
Avenue, and East 152nd Street — Capital Projects Office (O 1348-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration or Lead Hazard Control Grant — Healthy Homes Grant —
U.S. Department of HUD — professional services for grant writing
services (O 1418-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mental Health and Substance Abuse Prevention Program, 2015 — Cuyahoga County Alcohol
Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board — Health Department (O 1383-14) . . . . . . . .
STD Control Prevention Program, 2015-2017 — Ohio Department of Health (O 1347-14). . . . . . . . . . . .
Title X Program — Ohio Department of Health — Medicaid program payments (O 1384-14) . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 1752
. . . . . . . . . . . 1774
. . . . . . . . . . . 1774

. . . . . . . . . . . 1775

. . . . . . . . . . . 1775
. . . . . . . . . . . 1775
. . . . . . . . . . . 1774
. . . . . . . . . . . 1775

Health Department
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2015-2017 — Academy of Educational Development —
Grants — Ohio Department of Health (O 1345-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Healthy Weight Program, 2014-15 — Grants — Ohio Department of Health (O 1346-14) . . . . . . . . .
Mental Health and Substance Abuse Prevention Program, 2015 — Cuyahoga County Alcohol
Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board — Grants (O 1383-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
STD Control Prevention Program, 2015-2017 — Grants — Ohio Department of Health (O 1347-14).
Title X Program — Ohio Department of Health — Medicaid program payments — Grants
(O 1384-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1774
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1774
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1774
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775

House Bill
Opposing Am. Sub. H.B. 5 (R 1603-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1773

Housing And Urban Development (HUD)
Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration or Lead Hazard Control Grant — Healthy Homes
Grant — professional services for grant writing services (O 1418-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775

Lease Agreement
Amend Ord. No. 561-14 — Cumberland lease agreement for Harbor West Docks — North Coast
Harbor (three sites) (O 1507-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776
Lease hangar space for aircraft maintenance facility (Building 211) — Constant Aviation,
LLC — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 1463-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1784
Lease hanger space for aircraft maintenance facility (Bay 3) — Constant Aviation, LLC —
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 1462-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1784

1791

The City Record

44

December 3, 2014

Liquor Permits
Huron Rd., 1220 (East) — objection to transfer of liquor license (Ward 03) (R 1575-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1781
Lorain Ave., 2710 — objection to transfer of location (Ward 03) (R 1574-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1781

Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency (NOACA)
East 105th / East 93rd Transportation Corridor Project — Federal Highway Administration —
TIGER Program (FY 2014) — Grants — City Planning Commission (O 1590-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1752

Ohio Department Of Public Health
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2015-2017 — Academy of Educational Development —
Grants (O 1345-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Healthy Weight Program, 2014-15 — Health Department — Grants (O 1346-14) . . . . . . . . . .
STD Control Prevention Program, 2015-2017 — Grants (O 1347-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Title X Program — Medicaid program payments — Grants (O 1384-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1774
1774
1774
1775

Ohio Department Of Transportation (ODOT)
Pavement improvements on Broadview Rd. — consent and cause payment — Capital
Projects Office (Ward 12) (O 1439-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Community College Ave. — consent and cause payment —
Capital Projects Office (Ward 05) (O 1440-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on East Blvd. and Ford Dr. — consent and cause payment — Capital
Projects Office (Ward 09) (O 1441-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Harvard Ave. — consent and cause payment — Capital Projects
Office (Ward 01) (O 1442-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Prospect Ave. — consent and cause payment — Capital
Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1443-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on West 117th St. — consent and cause payment — Capital Projects
Office (Ward 11) (O 1444-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on West Blvd. — consent and cause payment — Capital Projects
Office (Ward 11) (O 1445-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776

Permits
The Santa Shuffle — Dec. 13 — Hermes Sports and Events (Ward 03) (O 1596-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1773

Port Control Department
Air and cargo service consulting and advising services — renew Contract No. PS 2013-031 —
Seabury Airline Planning Group, LLC (O 1456-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 561-14 — Cumberland lease agreement for Harbor West Docks — North Coast
Harbor (three sites) (O 1507-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financial consulting services — renew Contract No. PS 2013-025 — Peregrine Advisors, LLC
(O 1455-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lease hangar space for aircraft maintenance facility (Building 211) — Constant Aviation,
LLC — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 1463-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lease hanger space for aircraft maintenance facility (Bay 3) — Constant Aviation, LLC —
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 1462-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lobbying services — airport matters — renew Contract No. PS 2013-032 — LHD & Associates,
Inc. (O 1454-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Passenger boarding bridges (new or refurbished) — contracts — Ameribridge, LLC (O 1458-14).

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1783
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1783
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1784
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1784
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1783
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1783

Professional Services
City-wide Safety Programs — contracts — Finance Department (O 1524-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Communication and Public Relations Consulting Services — Mita Marketing, LLC (O 1598-14) .
Computer Technology Projects — Solar Systems Networking Inc. (O 1599-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting services for utility-related matters — The Project Group (O 1602-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Discount affordability program — Cleveland Housing Network — contracts — Utilities
Department — Water Division (O 1516-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 105th / East 93rd Transportation Corridor Project — Northeast Ohio Areawide
Coordinating Agency — Federal Highway Administration — TIGER Program (FY 2014) —
Grants — City Planning Commission (O 1590-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financial Consulting and Auditing Services — Guy Gadomski, CPA (O 1601-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financial statement, 2014 — independent opinion — Clark Schaefer Hackett — Taxation
Division — Utilities Department — Water Division (O 1508-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration or Lead Hazard Control Grant — Healthy Homes
Grant — U.S. Department of HUD — for grant writing services (O 1418-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Operation and Sustainability Plan implementation — Cobalt Group, Inc. (O 1597-14) . . . . . . . . . .
Vacant and Abandoned Property Action Council (VAPAC), demolition
bond, reforestation, demolition funding, rehabilitation, and code enforcement —
Western Reserve Land Conservancy d/b/a Thriving Communities Institute — agreement
(O 1600-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1792

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1785
1772
1772
1773

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1752
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1772
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1784
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1772

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1772

December 3, 2014

The City Record

45

Public Improvements
Infrastructure capital improvements — apply — District One Public Works Integrating
Committee — rehabilitation of U.S. Route 42, Scranton Road/Carter Road, Clark
Avenue, and East 152nd Street — Capital Projects Office (O 1348-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Broadview Rd. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 12) (O 1439-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Community College Ave. — consent and cause payment — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 05)
(O 1440-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on East Blvd. and Ford Dr. — consent and cause payment — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 09)
(O 1441-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Harvard Ave. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department of
Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 01) (O 1442-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Prospect Ave. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department of
Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1443-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on West 117th St. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department of
Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 11) (O 1444-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on West Blvd. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 11) (O 1445-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Roofs, roof systems and appurtenances — Cleveland Public Power Division — Water
Division — Water Pollution Control Division (O 1521-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Turney Rd. (Warner Rd. to the Cleveland south corporation line) — resurfacing — consent —
Cuyahoga County (Ward 02) (O 1349-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775

Public Works
Excessively Large Quantity of Waste Disposal — Civil Infractions — Amend Section 551.05,
551.111 and 551.991 (O 974-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1774
Youth Sports Football Recreation Program — Ohio Elite Football, Inc. — agreement
(Ward 09 CRF) (O 1567-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1785

Races
The Santa Shuffle — permit — Dec. 13 — Hermes Sports and Events (Ward 03) (O 1596-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1773

Resolution Of Support
East 118th St. (between Wade Park Ave. and Euclid Ave.) — designate as residential permit
parking area (Ward 09) (R 1576-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1782
Urging Ohio State Board of Education to allow more community input before eliminate the
“5 of 8” rule (R 1604-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1773

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Opposing Am. Sub. H.B. 5 (R 1603-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1773

Revenue Bonds
Fund Transfers — $ 2,940,000 — General Fund — $ 800,000 — Special Revenue Fund —
$10,850,000 — Enterprise Fund (O 1593-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763

Safety Department
East 118th St. (between Wade Park Ave. and Euclid Ave.) — designate as residential permit
parking area (Ward 09) (R 1576-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1782

Sewers
Sewerage Service Rates Within Cleveland — amend Section 543.02 (O 1030-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1782

Special Revenue Funds
Fund Transfers — $ 2,940,000 — General Fund — $ 800,000 — Special Revenue Fund —
$10,850,000 — Enterprise Fund (O 1593-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763

State Of Ohio
Infrastructure capital improvements — apply — District One Public Works Integrating
Committee — rehabilitation of U.S. Route 42, Scranton Road/Carter Road, Clark
Avenue, and East 152nd Street — Capital Projects Office (O 1348-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775

1793

The City Record

46

December 3, 2014

Street Vacation
East 38th Pl. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(Ward 05) (O 1589-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1752
East 97th St. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(Ward 06) (O 1588-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751

Streets — Name
East 112th St. (Primrose Ave. and Superior Ave.) — secondary and honorary designation of
Steve Harvey Way — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 09)
(O 1557-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777

Utilities Department
Cleveland Public Power tax remittances — FY 2015 and 2016 — General Fund — Finance
Department (O 1350-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting services for utility-related matters — The Project Group (O 1602-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Discount affordability program — Cleveland Housing Network — professional services —
contracts — Water Division (O 1516-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financial statement, 2014 — independent opinion — Clark Schaefer Hackett — Taxation
Division — Water Division (O 1508-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Roofs, roof systems and appurtenances — Cleveland Public Power Division — Water Division —
Water Pollution Control Division (O 1521-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sewerage Service Rates Within Cleveland — amend Section 543.02 (O 1030-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1773
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1784
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1782

Ward 01
Pavement improvements on Harvard Ave. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department of
Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 1442-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775

Ward 02
Turney Rd. (Warner Rd. to the Cleveland south corporation line) — resurfacing — consent —
Cuyahoga County (O 1349-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775

Ward 03
Huron Rd., 1220 (East) — objection to transfer of liquor license — liquor permit (R 1575-14) . . .
Lorain Ave., 2710 — objection to transfer of location — liquor permit (R 1574-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on Prospect Ave. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department of
Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 1443-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Santa Shuffle — permit — Dec. 13 — Hermes Sports and Events (O 1596-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urging Ohio State Board of Education to allow more community input before eliminate the
“5 of 8” rule (R 1604-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1781
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1781
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1773
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1773

Ward 05
East 38th Pl. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (O 1589-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1752
Pavement improvements on Community College Ave. — consent and cause payment — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 1440-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775

Ward 06
East 97th St. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (O 1588-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751

Ward 07
Collier, David — Condolence (R 1605-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751

Ward 09
East 112th St. (Primrose Ave. and Superior Ave.) — secondary and honorary designation of
Steve Harvey Way — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (O 1557-14) . . .
East 118th St. (between Wade Park Ave. and Euclid Ave.) — designate as residential permit
parking area (R 1576-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement improvements on East Blvd. and Ford Dr. — consent and cause payment — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 1441-14) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Youth Sports Football Recreation Program — Ohio Elite Football, Inc. — agreement — Works
Department (Ward 09 CRF) (O 1567-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1782
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1785

Ward 10
Smith, Tony — Condolence (R 1606-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751

1794

December 3, 2014

The City Record

47

Ward 11
Pavement improvements on West 117th St. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department of
Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 1444-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776
Pavement improvements on West Blvd. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 1445-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776

Ward 12
Pavement improvements on Broadview Rd. — consent and cause payment — Ohio Department of
Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 1439-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775

Ward 13
Opposing Am. Sub. H.B. 5 (R 1603-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1773

Waste Collection And Disposal Division
Excessively Large Quantity of Waste Disposal — Civil Infractions — Amend Section 551.05,
551.111 and 551.991 (O 974-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1774

Water Division
Discount affordability program — Cleveland Housing Network — professional services —
contracts — Utilities Department (O 1516-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financial statement, 2014 — independent opinion — Clark Schaefer Hackett — Taxation
Division — Utilities Department (O 1508-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Roofs, roof systems and appurtenances — Cleveland Public Power Division — Water Pollution
Control Division (O 1521-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sewerage Service Rates Within Cleveland — amend Section 543.02 (O 1030-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1784
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1782

Water Pollution Control Division (WPC)
Roofs, roof systems and appurtenances — Cleveland Public Power Division — Water Division
(O 1521-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776

1795

