The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

April the Ninth, Two Thousand and Fourteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Jeffrey D. Johnson
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Martin J. Sweeney
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
Statement of Cash Management
and Investment Policy
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
11
11
13
13
14
14
17
17
19
20
47
47

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zack Reed ..........................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Martin J. Flask, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Special Projects
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Paul Bender, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview
Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Eugene R. Miller, (Board Lawyer), Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice
Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary
Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa
Ryan, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Jomarie Wasik, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member _____________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Giancarlo Calicchia, John Torres, Robert Vilkas, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Ed Wade – Courtroom 12A
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Chief Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 2014

Vol. 101

No. 5235

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, APRIL 7, 2014
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:
Mayor's Appointments Committee:
Sweeney (CHAIR), Brady, Cleveland, Dow, Kelley.
Operations
Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR), Kelley, Keane, Mitchell,
Zone.

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2014-2017

Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Keane, Pruitt.

Kelley
Cummins,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________

TUESDAY — Alternating

Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, April 7, 2014
The meeting of the Council was
called to order with the President of
Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the
Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Brian J. Cummins,
TJ Dow, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Kenneth L. Johnson, Martin J. Keane,
Kevin J. Kelley, Mamie J. Mitchell,
Michael D. Polensek, Terrell H.
Pruitt,
Zack
Reed,
Martin
J.
Sweeney and Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Government
Affairs Valarie J. McCall, Chief of
Education Monyka S. Price, Chief of
Communications Maureen Harper,
Chief
of
Sustainability
Jenita
McGowan, Chief of Public Affairs
Natoya Walker-Minor, and Directors
Langhenry, Bender, Spronz, Butler,
Cox, Rush, Rybka, Southerington,
Nichols, Griffin, Brown, Fumich, and
Ambroz.

1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR),
Brady
(VICEBrancatelli,
Cummins,
CHAIR),
Keane, Mitchell, Polensek.

Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection,
and the Pledge of Allegiance.

1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Zone (VICE-CHAIR),
J.Johnson, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Sweeney.

MOTION

MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman
(CHAIR), Mitchell (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Property Committee: K. Johnson
(CHAIR), Sweeney (VICE-CHAIR),
Brancatelli, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, Reed.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley (CHAIR), Cleveland (VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY.
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Cimperman, Cummins, Dow, Pruitt, Zone.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone
(CHAIR),
Conwell
(VICECHAIR), Cimperman, Dow, K.Johnson, Keane, Polensek.
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Dow
(VICE-CHAIR), Conwell, J. Johnson,
K.Johnson, Reed, Sweeney.

On the motion of Council Member
Cleveland, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed
with
and
the
journal
approved. Seconded by Council Member Brady.

OATH OF OFFICE
File No. 455-14.
Charles L. DePenti for Lieutenant
of Police. Received.
STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTANCE
File No. 458-14.
From Department of Public Utilities, City of Cleveland, for Year
2012-B Cleaning and Cement Mortar
Lining. Contractor: Utilicon Corporation. Contract: PI2012*010. Date of
Acceptance: April 8, 2013. Received.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 456-14.
RE: #9115511. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1 C2. 2603, Inc.,
2603
Woodhill
Rd.
(Ward
6).
Received.
File No. 457-14.
RE: #0006566. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1. AS & KS, Inc.,
7).
5510
St.
Clair
Ave.
(Ward
Received.
File No. 477-14.
RE: #80036070155. Stock Application, C1 C2. 7 Eleven, Inc., 1035 East
185th St. (Ward 8). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 478-14—Edna L. DavisEastern.
Res.
No.
479-14—Margree
E.
McPherson.
Res. No. 480-14—Rev. Dr. Eugene
L. Schoolfield II.
Res. No. 481-14—Nona Michelle
Burney, J.D., Ph.D.
Res. No. 482-14—William Sanford
Florence.
Res.
No.
483-14—David
Robert
Scott.
Res. No. 484-14—Pastor Lawrence
W. Boone.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS

COMMUNICATIONS

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:

File No. 454-14.
From
Division
of
Treasury,
Department of Finance, City of
Cleveland. Statement of Cash Management and Investment Policy for
2014. Received.

Res. No. 485-14—Benson Fleming 90th Birthday.
Res. No. 486-14—Zeta Phi Beta
Sorority — 80th Great Lakes Region
Leadership Conference.
Res. No. 487-14—Debra Arnall See.

447

The City Record

4
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 488-14—State Senator C.J.
Prentiss (retired).
Res. No. 489-14—Judge Una H.R.
Keenon (retired).
Res.
No.
490-14—Rev.
E.
Theophilus Caviness.
Res. No. 491-14—Bishop F.E. Perry
Res.
No.
492-14—Clarence
Yarbrough.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 459-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 131.35 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 599-11,
passed June 6, 2011, relating to the
rental of athletic complexes.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 131.35 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 599-11, passed June 6, 2011, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 131.35 Rental of Athletic
Complexes; Fee
(a) The Director of Public Works,
or his or her designee, may rent the
Collinwood Athletic Complex, the
Morgana Athletic Complex, League
Park Baseball Field; and any other
City of Cleveland athletic complexes,
when available, as long as a permit is
secured under Section 131.07 and the
fees specified in this section are paid.
(b) The Director, or his or her
designee, shall assess and collect the
following fees and charges for the
rental of Athletic Complexes:
(1) Athletic Complex Base Rental:
One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00);
A. Base Rental of the complex is
based on a six (6) hour period.
B. The six-hour Base Rental period
includes set up, event, dismantle, and
the exit of the organizers and their
participants and guests, and general
clean-up.
C. Each additional hour or fraction
thereof exceeding the six-hour Base
Rental will cost an additional $200.00
per hour.
D. During the six hour Base Rental,
if lights are required during any portion of the sporting or athletic event,
an additional one hundred dollars
($100.00) per hour or fraction thereof
will be charged at the time the permit
is issued. The City will bill for any
additional lighting costs at $150.00
per hour or fraction thereof.
E. Party renting the complex is
responsible for general clean-up of
the area.
(2) All fees are due and payable
prior to the issuance of a permit.
(3) Rentals not requiring lights are
to conclude 30 minutes prior to dusk.
(4) Rentals requiring lights must
conclude no later than 11:00 p.m.
(c) In cases where private security
services are determined to be necessary by the Director, or his or her

designee, it is the responsibility of the
party renting the complex to provide
the services, using a security service
approved by the Director, or his or her
designee.
(d) Any party renting the complex
is responsible for damages incurred
during rental period and will be
required to provide one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) liability and property
damage
insurance
which
includes the City of Cleveland as an
additional insured.
(e) Any party renting the complex
will be required to provide emergency
medical personnel for any athletic
competition.
(f) All proceeds from gate collections will go to the party renting the
facility.
(g) All concessions will be operated
by the City of Cleveland or its designated vendor.
(h) The Director shall deposit the
fees and charges collected for the
rental of the complex into the fund or
funds designated to pay the costs of
the general operation of the complex,
the equipment and maintenance costs
associated with maintaining the complex, and for improvements to the
complex. The funds collected may be
used for and are appropriated for
these purposes.
(i) After securing the necessary
permit under Section 131.07 of these
Codified Ordinances, the Director, or
his or her designee, may allow the
Cleveland Muny Football League and
the Cleveland Metropolitan School
District to rent Athletic Complexes
for games, scrimmages, or practices,
without being assessed the fees and
charges specified in division (b) of
this section.
Section 2. That existing Section
131.35 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 599-11, passed June 6,
2011, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Municipal Services and Properties,
Finance.
Ord. No. 460-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 139.18 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 696-04,
passed June 7, 2004, relating to loaned
United States government property.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 139.18 of the
Codified Ordinance of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 696-04, passed June 7, 2004, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 139.18 Loaned United States
Government Property
The Director of Port Control is
authorized to enter into agreements

448

April 9, 2014
with the United States of America to
accept and maintain various property
on loan from the United States of
America and located at Cleveland
Hopkins International and Burke
Lakefront airports or adjacent to Harbor or Cuyahoga River property managed by the Department of Port Control, subject to terms and conditions
that are acceptable to the Director of
Law.
Section 2. That existing Section
139.18 of the Codified Ordinance of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 696-04, passed June 7,
2004, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 461-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
apply for and accept a grant from
Cuyahoga Arts and Culture for the
2014 CAC Mural My Neighborhood
Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $19,400, and any other
funds that may become available during the grant term from Cuyahoga
Arts and Culture to conduct the 2014
CAC Mural My Neighborhood Program; that the Director is authorized
to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds
under the grant; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
described in the 2014 Project Support
Grant Agreement for the grant contained in the file described below.
Section 2. That the 2014 Project Support Grant Agreement for the grant,
presented to the Finance Committee
of this Council at a public hearing on
this legislation and set forth in File
No. 461-14-A, is made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, is
approved in all respects, and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(B) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Works may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process. The contracts will be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited any grant
funds accepted under this ordinance.

April 9, 2014
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Municipal Services and Properties,
Finance.
Ord. No. 462-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Commission on Minority Health
for the 2014-15 Local Office on Minority Health Grant; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more contracts with other agencies, entities, or
individuals to implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $60,000, and any other
funds that may become available during the grant term from the Ohio Commission on Minority Health to conduct the 2014-15 Local Office on Minority Health Grant; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in the summary for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 462-14-A, is made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, is
approved in all respects, and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with other
agencies, entities, or individuals to
implement the grant as described in
the file.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees on
Health and Human Services, Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 463-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a HUD
108 Empowerment Zone loan from the
United States Department of Housing
and Urban Development to partially
finance the tenant build-out portion of
the overall redevelopment of the Victory Building located at 7012 Euclid
Avenue and other associated costs
necessary to redevelop the properties;
and authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into one
or more agreements with Victory Midtown, LLC, or its designee, for the project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
apply for and accept a HUD 108
Empowerment Zone loan in an
amount up to $4,000,000, from the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development (”HUD”), to partially finance the tenant build-out portion of the overall redevelopment of
the Victory Building located at 7012
Euclid Avenue (the “Project”).
Section 2. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into a loan agreement with Victory Midtown, LLC, or its designee,
and any necessary related agreements, to provide economic development assistance to partially finance
the Project, and for other associated
costs necessary to redevelop the property.
Section 3. That the terms of the loan
shall be according to the terms set
forth in the Summary contained in
File No. 463-14-A, made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance Committee of
this Council at the public hearing on
this legislation, and are approved in
all respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 4. That the costs of the contract shall not exceed $4,000,000 and
shall be paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited the loan proceeds
received from HUD under this ordinance, which funds are appropriated
for this purpose.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept such collateral as set forth in
the file referenced above in order to
secure repayment of the loan. Any
loan agreement, security instrument,
or other document shall be prepared
and approved by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept monies in repayment of the
loan and to deposit the monies into a
fund designated by the Director of
Finance.
Section 7. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
charge and accept fees in an amount
not to exceed the maximum allowable
fees under federal regulations. The
fees shall be deposited to and expended from Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees
Fund.
Section 8. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed

449

5
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 9. That the contract authorized in this legislation will require
the recipient of financial assistance
to work with, and/or cause their Tenants to work with, The Workforce
Investment Board for Workforce
Area No. 3 to identify and solicit qualified candidates for job opportunities
related to the City’s contracts, and
place special emphasis on the hard to
employ, including but not limited to
the disabled and persons who have
been convicted of or have pled guilty
to a criminal offense, unless the criminal conviction or related circumstances relate to the duties for the
particular job sought.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Development, Planning and
Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 464-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving
the collective bargaining agreement
with the Ohio Nurses Association.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B)
of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code,
this Council approves the collective
bargaining agreement with Ohio
Nurses Association, under the terms
contained in File No. 464-14-A, for the
period from April 1, 2013 through
March 31, 2016, and which provides,
among other things, for an increase in
the salaries and wages for members
of the bargaining unit under the following schedule:
Increase

Approximate Date
of Increase*

1%
2%
2%

April 1, 2013
April 1, 2014
April 1, 2015

* Wage increases shall be effective as
follows:
(a) If April 1st falls in the first
week of a pay period, then the wage
increase shall be effective commencing at the beginning of that pay period; or
(b) If April 1st falls in the second
week of a pay period, then the wage
increase shall be effective commencing at the beginning of the next pay
period.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Committee
on Finance.

6
Ord. No. 465-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease By Way of Concession with JIT Services, LLC to manage, operate, and maintain the North
Coast Harbor Transient Marina, associated support facility, concessions
and equipment rental programs, for a
period of five years, with one fiveyear option to renew, exercisable
through additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Director of Port Control
is authorized to enter into a Lease By
Way of Concession (“Lease”) with
JIT Services, LLC to manage, operate,
and maintain the North Coast Harbor
Transient Marina, associated support
facility, concessions and equipment
rental programs, for the Department
of Port Control.
Section 2. That the term of the
Lease shall be for a period of five
years, with one five-year option to
renew, exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Lease shall provide that JIT Services, LLC will pay
the City a fixed rent of $2,000 per
month from May through October for
each year of the term, plus 6.5% of the
gross revenues generated from the
marina and any of its related concessions.
Section 4. The agreement or agreements shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 466-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional consultants to enter into one or more
management agreements to provide
maintenance, operation and management services for City-owned common
use facilities at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, for a period of
two years, with three one-year
options to renew, the first of which
requires
additional
legislative
authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to employ by

The City Record
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to enter
into one or more management agreements to provide maintenance, operation and management services for
City-owned common use facilities at
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, for a period of two years, with
three one-year options to renew. The
first of the one-year options to renew
may not be exercised without additional legislative authority. If such
additional legislative authority is
granted and the first of the one-year
options to renew is exercised, then the
second and third one-year options to
renew may be exercised at the option
of the Director of Port Control, without the necessity of obtaining additional authority of this Council.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Port Control from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Port Control for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 60-SF-6320,
Request No. RL2014-18.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 467-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Building and
Housing to enter into one or more contracts with Lou Ritenour Decorators,
Inc. dba WR Restoration, or its
designee, for professional services
necessary to provide professional and
technical services relating to the historic documentation, assessments,
and the preserving and salvaging of
architectural elements and materials
of the former Fifth Church of Christ,
Scientist, located at 11623 Lake
Avenue, and to enter into contract for
demolition of the property.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 22902, Cleveland City Council authorized the City of Cleveland to
acquire the former Fifth Church of
Christ, Scientist, located at 11623
Lake Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio (the
“Property”); and
Whereas, the Property is vacant,
deteriorated, and has been condemned by the City of Cleveland
Department of Building and Housing; and

450

April 9, 2014
Whereas, prior to demolition of
the Property, the Cleveland Landmarks Commission must consider
the demolition’s effect on the neighborhood, consider plans aimed at
remedying the loss of the Landmark
structure, and issue a Certificate of
Appropriateness to allow the demolition; and
Whereas, the Department of Building and Housing requests to contract for professional services needed to comply with Cleveland Landmarks Commission requirements for
approval to demolish the Property;
and
Whereas, the Department of Building and Housing has authority
under Section 138.07 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976
to demolish condemned properties;
and
Whereas, the Department of Building and Housing requests to enter
into contract for the demolition of
the Property; and
Whereas, the Department of Economic Development has agreed to
provide funds for the professional
services and the demolition in an
amount not to exceed $250,000 in the
aggregate; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to enter into one or more contracts
with Lou Ritenour Decorators, Inc.
dba WR Restoration, or its designee,
for professional services necessary to
provide technical services relating to
the historic documentation, providing
various assessments, preserving and
salvaging architectural elements and
materials of the former Fifth Church
of Christ, Scientist, located at 11623
Lake Avenue (the “Property”), and
for related services, in the amount not
to exceed $167,000, for the Department
of Building and Housing.
Section 2. That under Section 138.07
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of Building and Housing is authorized to
enter into contract for the demolition
of the Property.
Section 3. That the contracts authorized under this Ordinance will be
prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Building
and Housing, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 4. That the cost of the contracts authorized in Sections 1 and 2
of this Ordinance will be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 961, which will be created by the Director of Finance for
the Department of Building and Housing, and may not exceed $250,000 in
the aggregate.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Building
and Housing, Economic Development,
Finance, Law; Committees on Development, Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.

April 9, 2014
Ord. No. 474-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 607.15 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1497-03,
passed October 13, 2003, to prohibit
the sale and distribution of alternative nicotine products, including electronic cigarettes, to children.
Whereas, the Ohio General Assembly passed HB 144 on February 12,
2014 that will go into effect on June
3, 2014 to include alternative nicotine products, including electronic
cigarettes, within the restrictions
that currently apply to the sale or
distribution to, and possession or
use by, minors of cigarettes and
other tobacco products; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
already prohibits the sale or distribution of cigarettes or other tobacco products to children, and this
Council is compelled to also prohibit the sale or distribution of alternative nicotine products in order to
protect Cleveland’s children from
the harmful health effects of nicotine vapor inhaled while smoking
electronic cigarettes; and
Whereas, electronic cigarettes are
particularly appealing to children as
currently sold without proof of age
in flavors like fruit, bubble gum and
soda pop, and may lead to nicotine
addiction among young people; and
Whereas,
electronic
cigarettes
now account for more than forty
percent of all poison center calls
about
cigarette-type
products,
according to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 607.15 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1497-03, passed October 13, 2003, is
amended as follows:
Section 607.15 Illegal Distribution
of Cigarettes, Other Tobacco Products or Alternative Nicotine Products
(a) As used in this section:
(1) “Child” has the same meaning
as in section 2151.011 of the Ohio
Revised Code.
(2) “Cigarette” includes clove cigarettes and hand-rolled cigarettes.
(3) “Distribute” means to furnish,
give, or provide cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to the ultimate consumer of the
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes.
(4) A. “Alternative nicotine product” means, subject to division
(a)(4)(B) of this section, an electronic cigarette or any other product or
device that consists of or contains
nicotine that can be ingested into the
body by any means, including, but not
limited to, chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, or inhaling.
B. “Alternative nicotine product”
does not include any of the following:
(i) Any cigarette or other tobacco
product;
(ii) Any product that is a “drug” as
that term is defined in 21 U.S.C.
321(g)(1);
(iii) Any product that is a “device”
as that term is defined in 21 U.S.C.
321(h).

The City Record
(iv) Any product that is a “combination product” as described in 21
U.S.C. 353(g).
(5) A. “Electronic cigarette” means,
subject to division (a)(5)(B) of this
section, any electronic product or
device that produces a vapor that
delivers nicotine or any other substance to the person inhaling from the
device to simulate smoking and that
is likely to be offered to or purchased
by consumers as an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, or electronic pipe.
B. “Electronic cigarette” does not
include any item, product, or device
described in division (a) (4)(B)(i) to
(iv) of this section.
(6) Tobacco product” means any
product that is made from tobacco,
including, but not limited to, a cigarette, a cigar, pipe tobacco, chewing
tobacco, or snuff.
(7) “Vending machine” has the
same meaning as “coin machine” in
section 2913.01 of the Revised Code.
(b) No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler or retailer of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes, and no
agent, employee or representative of
a manufacturer, producer, distributor,
wholesaler or retailer of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, or papers used to
roll cigarettes and no other person
shall do any of the following:
(1) Give, sell or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco products
alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes to any
child;
(2) Give away, sell or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes in any place
that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a sign stating that giving, selling or otherwise distributing
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes to a person under eighteen (18) years of age
is prohibited by law;
(3) Knowingly furnish any false
information regarding the name, age,
or other identification of any child
with purpose to obtain cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, or papers used to
roll cigarettes for that child;
(4) Manufacture, sell, or distribute
in this City any pack or other container of cigarettes or alternative nicotine products containing fewer than
twenty (20) cigarettes or any package of roll-your-own tobacco containing less than six-tenths (0.6) of one
(1) ounce of tobacco;
(5) Sell cigarettes or alternative
nicotine products in a smaller quantity than that placed in the pack or
other container by the manufacturer;
(6) Sell other tobacco products in a
smaller quantity than was intended
for retail when the project was packaged by the manufacturer.
(b) No person shall sell or offer to
sell cigarettes or other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products
by or from a vending machine except
in the following locations:
(1) An area either:
A. Within a factory, business,
office, or other place not open to the
general public; or
B. To which persons under the age
of eighteen (18) years are not generally permitted access;
(2) In any other place not identified
in division (b)(1) of this section, upon
all of the following conditions:

451

7
A. The vending machine is located
within the immediate vicinity, plain
view, and control of the person who
owns or operates the place, or an
employee of such person, so that all
cigarettes, other tobacco product, and
alternative nicotine product purchases from the vending machine will be
readily observed by the person who
owns or operates the place or an
employee of such person. For the purpose of this section, a vending
machine located in any unmonitored
area, including an unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or outer
waiting area, shall not be considered
within the immediate vicinity, plain
view, and control of the person who
owns or operates the place, or an
employee of such person.
B. The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the place is
closed.
(c) The following are affirmative
defenses to a charge under division
(a)(1) of this section:
(1) The child was accompanied by a
parent, spouse who is eighteen (18)
years of age or older, or legal
guardian of the child;
(2) The person who gave, sold, or
distributed cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes
to a child under division (a)(1) of this
section is a parent, spouse who is
eighteen (18) years of age or older, or
legal guardian of the child.
(d) It is not a violation of division
(a)(1) or (2) of this section for a person to give or otherwise distribute to
a child cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes while
the child is participating in a
research protocol if all of the following apply:
(1) The parent, guardian, or legal
custodian of the child has consented
in writing to the child participating
in the research protocol.
(2) An institutional human subjects
protection review board, or equivalent entity, has approved the research
protocol.
(3) The child is participating in the
research protocol at the facility or
location specified in the research protocol.
(e) (1) Whoever violates division
(a)(1), (2), (4), or (5) or (c) is guilty
of illegal distribution of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If the offender has previously been convicted of a violation
of division (a)(1), (2), (4), or (5) or
(b) of this section or divisions (B)(1),
(2), (4), or (5) or (C) of RC 2927.02,
then illegal distribution of cigarettes
or other tobacco products is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(2) Whoever violates division
(a)(3) of this section is guilty of permitting children to use cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in this division, permitting children to use cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (a)(3) of this section
or division (B)(3) of RC 2927.02, permitting children to use cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative

8
nicotine products is a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(f) Any cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes
that are given, sold, or otherwise distributed to a child in violation of this
section and that are used, possessed,
purchased, or received by a child in
violation of section 2151.87 of the
Revised Code are subject to seizure
and forfeiture as contraband under
Chapter 2981 of the Revised Code.
Section 2. That existing Section
607.15 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1497-03, passed October
13, 2003, is repealed.
Section 3. That the amendments to
Section 607.15 shall take effect sixty
days after the effective date of this
ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Public Safety, Finance, Law;
Committees on Health and Human
Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 493-14.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 337.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 814-10,
passed October 4, 2010, and Section
337.03, as amended by Ordinance No.
740-67, passed May 22, 1967, requiring
a time period of thirty days or more
for roomers or boarders in dwelling
houses in one-family and two-family
districts.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 337.02 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 814-10, passed October 4, 2010, and
Section 337.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 740-67, passed May 22, 1967,
are amended as follows:
Section 337.02 One-Family District
In a One-Family District, the following buildings and uses and their
accessory buildings and uses are permitted:
(a) Dwelling houses, each occupied
by not more than one (1) family, and
not more than two (2) roomers or
boarders occupying the dwelling for
thirty (30) days or more;
(b) Playgrounds, parks;
(c) The extension of existing cemeteries;
(d) Railroad rights of way, not
including switching, storage or
freight yards or industrial sidings;
(e) Agricultural uses, subject to the
regulations of Section 337.25 and Section 347.02;
(f) The following buildings and
uses, if located not less than fifteen
(15) feet from any adjoining premises
in a Residence District not used for a
similar purpose:
(1) Churches and other places of
worship, but not including funeral
chapels or mortuary chapels;

The City Record
(2) Telephone exchanges and static
transformer stations, provided there
is no public business office or any
storage yard or storage building operated in connection therewith;
(3) Bus turn-around and layover
areas operated by a public transit
agency provided that no buildings
other than a passenger shelter and
restroom are located at each site, and
provided, further, that any layover
space accommodates no more than
two (2) buses.
(g) The following buildings and
uses, if approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals after public notice and
public hearing, and if adequate yard
spaces and other safeguards to preserve the character of the neighborhood are provided, and if in the judgment of the Board such buildings and
uses are appropriately located and
designed and will meet a community
need without adversely affecting the
neighborhood:
(1) A temporary or permanent use
of a building by a nonprofit organization for a dormitory, fraternity or
sorority house, for the accommodation of those enrolled in or employed
by an educational institution permitted in the District;
(2) Fire stations, police stations;
(3) The following buildings and
uses, if located not less than thirty
(30) feet from any adjoining premises
in a Residence District not used for a
similar purpose, and subject to the
review and approval of the Board of
Zoning Appeals as stated above:
A. Public libraries or museums, and
public or private schools or colleges
including accessory laboratories, provided such private schools or colleges
are not conducted as a gainful business;
B. Recreation or community center
buildings, parish houses and grounds
for games and sports, except those of
which a chief activity is one customarily carried on primarily for gain;
C. Day nurseries, kindergartens;
D. Hospitals, sanitariums, nursing,
rest or convalescent homes, not primarily for contagious diseases nor for
the care of drug or liquor patients, nor
for the care of the insane or developmentally disabled;
E. Orphanages;
F. Homes for the aged or similar
homes;
G. Charitable institutions not for
correctional purposes.
(4) The following buildings and
uses, if located not less than fifty (50)
feet from adjoining premises in a Residence District not used for a similar
purpose, and subject to the review
and approval of the Board of Zoning
Appeals as stated above.
A. Municipal recreation buildings;
B. Municipal swimming pools;
(5) Crematories in existing cemeteries, provided they are not less than
three hundred (300) feet from any
boundary that abuts a Residence District, and subject to the review and
approval of the Board of Zoning
Appeals as stated above.
Section 337.03 Two-Family District
In a Two-Family District the following buildings and uses are permitted:
(a) Dwelling houses, each occupied
by not more than two (2) families,
and not more than two (2) roomers or
boarders occupying the dwelling for
thirty (30) days or more.
(b) All other uses permitted and as
regulated in a One-Family District.

452

April 9, 2014
(c) The Board of Zoning Appeals,
after public notice and public hearing, and upon prescribing proper safeguards to preserve the character of
the neighborhood, may grant special
permits for the remodeling of existing dwelling houses or the erection of
row houses to provide for more than
two (2) dwelling units but not more
than six dwelling units in each building, provided that:
(1) The square feet of lot area to be
allotted to each dwelling unit is in
accordance with the area regulations
included in Chapter 355;
(2) The dwelling units to be created
will be not smaller than two (2)
rooms and a bathroom;
(3) There will be no exterior evidence that a remodeled dwelling
house is occupied by more than two
(2) families, except such as may be
permitted by the Board;
(4) The building when altered or
erected and when occupied will conform to all the applicable provisions
of the Building and Housing Codes
and as the Commissioner of Building
and the Commissioner of Housing so
certify;
(5) Garage space or hard surfaced
and drained parking space will be
provided upon the premises for the
cars of the families to be accommodated on the premises at the rate of
not less than one (1) car per family.
Section 2. That existing Section
337.02 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 814-10, passed October
4, 2010, and Section 337.03, as amended
by Ordinance No. 740-67, passed May
22, 1967, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Building
and Housing, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Development, Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 468-14.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Aging to enter into an agreement
with Court Community Service for the
Senior Lawn Care Program through
the use of Ward 1 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Aging be authorized to
enter into an agreement with Court
Community Service for the Senior
Lawn Care Program for the public
purpose of assisting senior citizens
residing in the city of Cleveland with
grass cutting and lawn maintenance
care through the use of Ward 1 Neighborhood Capital Funds.

April 9, 2014
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $22,500 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 469-14.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Morgana Run, on June
8, 2014, sponsored by Hermes Sports &
Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the Morgana Run, sponsored by Hermes Sports & Events, on June 8, 2014;
start: Fleet at Aetna; Fleet south to
Broadway; Broadway northwest to
Forman; Forman west to East 65th;
East 65th north to Baxter; Baxter east
to East 67th; East 67th north to Broadway; Broadway northwest to Morgan
Trail; Morgan Trail south to Wire;
Wire west to Broadway; Broadway
northwest to Fleet; Fleet east to
Kionowski-finish line, provided that
the applicant sponsor shall meet all
the requirements of Section 411.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary in
order to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and all
liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 470-14.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Escape on the Lake, on
July 12, 2014, benefits Villa Angela-St.
Joseph High School.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the Escape on the Lake, on July 12,
2014, start: Villa Angela-St. Joseph;
Lakeshore west to Schenely; Schenely
north to Dorchester; Dorchester west
to Lakefront State Park; run through
the park, turn around return to Dorchester; Dorchester east to Schenely;
Schenely
south
to
Lakeshore;
Lakeshore east to East 185th; finish
at Villa Angela-St. Joseph, provided
that the applicant sponsor shall meet
all the requirements of Section 411.05
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed
as determined by the Chief of Police
and safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants in
the event. Said permit shall further
provide that the City of Cleveland
shall be fully indemnified from any
and all liability resulting from the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 471-14.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development to
stretch banners at East 55th & Scovill
near East Tech and East 39th & Community College Avenue, northeast
side, for the period from May 28, 2013
to June 28, 2014, inclusive, publicizing
the 9th Annual Ward 5 Family Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding the
provision of Section 623.13 of the Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of the Department
of Capital Projects is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development to
stretch banners at East 55th & Scovill
near East Tech and East 39th & Community College Avenue, northeast
side, for the period from May 28, 2014

453

9
to June 28, 2014, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved by the Director
of Capital Projects, in consultation
with the Director of Public Safety, as
to type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any
sign erected and maintained under
the requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial
advertising shall be printed or permitted on said banner and said banner shall be removed promptly upon
the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 476-14.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance to add the
name Geraldine H. Burns Way as a
secondary name to Unwin Road from
Quincy Avenue to Central Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976, the name Geraldine H. Burns
Way shall be added as a secondary
name to Unwin Road from Quincy
Avenue to Central Avenue.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 472-14.
By Council Member Dow and J.
Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D2, D2X, D3 and D6 Liquor Permit at
6201 St. Clair Avenue, 1st floor and
repealing Resolution No. 1060-13,
objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D6
Liquor Permit to Dot & Beanies Tavern, Inc., 6201 St. Clair Avenue, 1st
floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 2275179 by Resolution

10
No. 1060-13, adopted by the Council on
August 14, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D6
Liquor Permit to Dot & Beanies Tavern, Inc., 6201 St. Clair Avenue, 1st
floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 2275179, be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1060-13, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 475-14.
By Council Members Kelley, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Brady, Mitchell,
Keane, Zone, Dow, Pruitt, Reed, J.
Johnson, Polensek, Cimperman, K,
Johnson, Conwell, Cummins and
Sweeney.
An emergency resolution supporting the Cuyahoga County Council’s
Ordinance No. O2014-0008 that enacts
the Cuyahoga County Voting Rights
Law to assist its citizens in exercising their right to vote through voter
registration, early voting, and voting
by mail programs; and urging the
County to send applications to vote by
mail with postage-prepaid return
envelopes to all registered voters in
Cuyahoga County.
Whereas, on March 11, 2014, the
Cuyahoga County Council introduced
Ordinance No. O2014-008 to enact the
Cuyahoga County Voting Rights Law
and update the Cuyahoga County
Equity Plan in Chapter 1101 of the
Cuyahoga County Code; and
Whereas, the Cuyahoga County
Voting Rights Law promotes voter
participation and access to the ballot
in Cuyahoga County by all citizens
through voter registration, early voting, and voting by mail programs,
including mailing applications to
vote by mail with postage-prepaid
return envelopes; and
Whereas, as recognized by the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit in
League of Women Voters of Ohio v.
Brunner, 548 F.3d 463 (6th Cir. 2008),
the citizens of Cuyahoga County
experienced substantial problems
and long lines trying to exercise their
constitutional right to vote during the
2004 general election; and,
Whereas, the voting problems experienced by the County’s citizens in
2004 are not a mere accident, but are

The City Record
the byproduct of unique conditions
and needs of large, urban counties;
and,
Whereas, Cuyahoga County is
Ohio’s largest county with a population of 1,280,122, and home to approximately 11 percent of Ohio’s population
of 11,536,502, according to the 2010 U.S.
Census; and,
Whereas, a significant percentage
of the County’s citizens often change
residential addresses a number of
times in between elections. Almost 35
percent of Cuyahoga County’s citizenry reside in rental housing. Furthermore, the County’s Office of Homeless
Services estimates that approximately 5,157 homeless citizens above the
age of 18 live in the County who are
entitled to cast their ballots in accordance with Northeast Ohio Coalition
for the Homeless v. Husted, 2012 WL
2711393 (S.D. Ohio July 9, 2012); and,
Whereas, 94 percent of the voting
precincts in Cuyahoga County are in
multi-precinct locations, which significantly raises the possibility of relegating the County’s citizens to provisional ballots when they vote on Election Day; and,
Whereas, the County found a real
solution to these voting problems
through a combination of mechanisms working together, including
(1) the ability of its citizens, especially citizens who change residential
addresses multiple times in between
elections, to register to vote or update
their voting registration and cast
their vote on the same day during
early in person voting at the Board of
Elections; (2) early in person voting
at the Board of Elections during after
hours, the weekends, especially Sundays, and the Monday before the election; and (3) mailing the vote by mail
applications to its citizens with
postage-prepaid return envelopes to
promote early voting and voting by
mail; and,
Whereas, the citizens of Cuyahoga
County have come to expect and rely
on the fact that they automatically
receive their requests for ballots to
vote by mail, with postage-prepaid
return envelopes, for every election;
and,
Whereas, these solutions proved
successful, and the County reduced
the number of voting precincts available on Election Day; and,
Whereas, by the adoption of Ohio
Senate Bills 205, 216, and 238, and Secretary of State Directive 2014-06, the
State has jettisoned the very solutions that proved successful in resolving elections problems in Cuyahoga
County; and,
Whereas, Cuyahoga County has a
substantial interest in ensuring that
its citizens have adequate opportunities to cast their ballots in every election; and
Whereas, Cuyahoga County also
has a substantial interest in protecting the integrity of its own elections,
including elections for its elected
offices and issues that it places on the
ballot by ensuring that the County’s
citizens have adequate opportunities
to cast their ballot in elections that
can be very close and impacted by the
citizenry’s ability to have adequate
access to the ballot; and,
Whereas, In August 2012, Cuyahoga County adopted an Equity Plan,
codified in Chapter 1101 of the Cuyahoga County Code, that expressly provides that the County’s objective is to
remove barriers that stand in the way
of the County’s citizens; and

454

April 9, 2014
Whereas, the restrictions imposed
by the State have a disparate impact
on working men and women in Cuyahoga County; and,
Whereas, the County should do
everything possible to remove barriers in the way of its citizens’ constitutional right to vote to further its equity objectives; and,
Whereas, as federal courts have
recognized, the establishment of socalled “uniform” procedures across
the State that fail to take into account
the unique needs of individual counties results in inequity and hurts the
ability of citizens in large counties to
vote. See, e.g., Vanzant v. Brunner,
S.D.Ohio Case No. 1:10-cv-596; and,
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
supports the County Council’s determination, as a chartered county with
home rule powers, that it is necessary
to provide services to its citizens to
facilitate their ability to vote; and,
Whereas, as a chartered county,
Cuyahoga County is constitutionally
entitled to rights and privileges,
including a First Amendment right to
communicate with its citizens and
share information with them on how
to vote and what forms to use when
they want to apply to receive their
ballots by mail; and,
Whereas, Senate Bill 205 restricts
speech based on the identity of the
speaker by not prohibiting individuals and private corporations from
exercising their First Amendment
right to communicate through sending applications to vote by mail,
including postage-prepaid return
envelopes,
while
attempting
to
restrict the ability of home rule entities from exercising the very same
speech; and,
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
supports the County Council’s finding
that it is necessary to invoke the
County’s home rule powers and its
constitutional
First
Amendment
rights to establish a program to assist
its citizens in exercising their right to
vote through voter registration as
well as mailing applications for voting by mail to its citizens, with
postage-prepaid return envelopes;
and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
supports the County Council’s Voting
Rights Law that will assist all Cleveland and Cuyahoga County citizens in
exercising their right to vote; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the Cuyahoga County Council’s
Ordinance No. O2014-0008 that enacts
the Cuyahoga County Voting Rights
Law to assist its citizens in exercising their right to vote through voter
registration, early voting, and voting
by mail programs; and urges the
County to send applications to vote by
mail with postage-prepaid return
envelopes to all registered voters in
Cuyahoga County.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution to the Cuyahoga County
Council,
County
Executive,
Ed
FitzGerald,
and
Councilmember
Sunny Simon.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all

April 9, 2014
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 189-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 129.294 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 892-12,
passed August 8, 2012, relating to professional services for the Department
of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Utilities, Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, at amended Section
129.294, insert new division (c) to read
as follows:
“(c) The Director of Public Utilities shall notify all members of
Council if the award of a contract
under this section exceeds $50,000.
(d)
The term of any contracts
authorized under this section shall
not exceed two years, with two oneyear options to renew.
Notwithstanding this section, the first of the
one-year options to renew may not
be exercised without additional legislative authority. If such additional legislative authority is granted
and the first of the one-year options
to renew is exercised, then the second of the one-year options to renew
may be exercisable at the option of
the Director of Public Utilities, without the necessity of obtaining additional authority of this Council.”
2. In Section 1, at amended Section
129.294, reletter existing division (c)
to new division “(e)”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 196-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more agreements
with Cleveland Housing Network to
administer energy, water, and sewer
conservation services to low income
home owners or rental property owners, for the Divisions of Water, Water
Pollution Control, and Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of one year, with a
one-year option to renew, exercisable
by the Director of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Utilities, Finance.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 273-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
employ one or more professional consultants to provide armed security
services at various indoor and outdoor recreation facilities, including
but not limited to, outdoor pools,
recreation centers, and various surrounding play areas, for a period not
to exceed one year.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal
Services and Property, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 302-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2012-180 with SourceLink,
Ohio LLC to provide professional services relating to the customer care
and billing systems for the Divisions
of Water and Cleveland Public
Power.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 337-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into an agreement with the
Neighborhood Leadership Institute to
implement educational, recreational
and cultural programs in various
school buildings and recreation centers during evening hours, provide
leadership training and supervise the
summer tennis program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal
Services and Property, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 359-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into one or more contracts with
City Year to perform community service work and to collaborate with various non-profit agencies.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal
Services and Property, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

455

11
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:53 p.m. to meet on Monday, April
14, 2014, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

April 2, 2014
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, April 2, 2014
at 10:38 a.m. with Director Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Acting Director Woods, Directors
Smith, Cox, Acting Director Withers,
Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Butler.
Others: Matthew Spronz, Director,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects.
Natoya Walker Minor, Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
D. Midgett, Acting Commissioner,
Division of Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 139-14.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractor by Terrace Construction Company, Inc.
under Contract No. PI2014*2 for the
public improvement contract for the
East 149th Street Sewer Replacement Project, for the Division of
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, is approved:
Subcontractor

CSB/MBE/FBE
Work

Ronyak Paving, Inc.
Other
$48,820.00(6.00%)
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Woods, Directors Smith,
Cox, Acting Director Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Butler.
Resolution No. 140-14.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractor by Superior Insulation, Inc. under City Contract No.
PI2013*049 for the public improvement of Phase II Continuation of

The City Record

12
the Residential Sound Insulation
Program, Contract B-12-1 General
Construction, authorized by Ordinance Nos. 930-95, 469-98 and 327-00,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on June 19, 1995, May 18,
1998 and June 12, 2000, respectively,
and Board of Control Resolution No.
136-13, adopted March 27, 2013, is
approved.
Subcontractor

Percentage
Amount

Tradesman International,
Inc.
2.0% Non-DBE
$14,996.15
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Woods, Directors Smith,
Cox, Acting Director Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Butler.
Resolution No. 141-14.
By Director Smith.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1171-08, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1341-11, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
on September 22, 2008 and October
31, 2011, respectively, and Board of
Control Resolution No. 549-11, adopted November 16, 2011, the City
through its Director of Port Control,
entered into Contract No. PS2012*001
with Team Eagle, LTD d/b/a Eagle
Integrated Solutions (“Consultant”),
to provide a Global Positioning/Geographic Information Airfield Management System, including installation and maintenance, for various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control; and
Whereas, the City has determined
the need for additional software and
licenses to assist with tracking airfield construction; and
Whereas, the Consultant has proposed by its letter dated December
23, 2013 to perform the additional
work necessary for an amount of
$34,318.00; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Director of Port Control is
authorized to enter into a First Modification
to
City
Contract
No.
PS2012*001 between the City of
Cleveland and Team Eagle, LTD
d/b/a Eagle Integrated Solutions, to
provide
additional
software
and
licenses to assist with tracking airfield construction at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport as set
forth in Consultant’s letter dated
December 23, 2013. The amount to be
paid
for
all
services
shall
be
increased
by
$34,318.00
from
$544,374.00 to a total amount not to
exceed $578,692.00.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Woods, Directors Smith,
Cox, Acting Director Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Butler.
Resolution No. 142-14.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain property located at
2970 East 73rd Street, Cleveland,
Ohio, consisting of approximately
2.744 acres more fully described in
Cleveland City Council File No. 766-

09-A and commonly known as the
Port Park site; and
Whereas, the Cleveland Metropolitan School District (“CMSD”) owns
certain property located at 3465 East
130th Street, in Cleveland, Ohio, consisting of approximately 3.337 acres
more fully described in Cleveland
City Council File No. 766-09-A and
commonly known as the Alexander
Hamilton School site; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 766-09,
passed by Cleveland City Council
June 8, 2009, authorized the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
to convey the Port Park site to the
CMSD in exchange for the Alexander Hamilton School site at fair market value determined by the Board
of Control; and
Whereas, by Resolution No. 298-11,
adopted June 29, 2011, the Board of
Control determined that fair market
value for the conveyance of the Port
Park site is the transfer of fee title
to the Alexander Hamilton School
site to the City and the obligation
of CMSD to comply with certain conditions outlined in the Board of Control resolution; and
Whereas, CMSD and the City have
into
an
agreement
to
entered
exchange the two properties for the
purpose of allowing CMSD to consolidate its adjoining property with
Port Park and construct a new
Anton Grdina School; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 728-13,
passed May 20, 2013, amended Ordinance No. 766-09 by correcting the
legal description of the Port Park
site placed in Council File No. 76609-A; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, the fourth paragraph of Board
of Control Resolution No. 298-11,
adopted June 29, 2011, is amended
by revising the ordinance authority
cited for the property exchange to
“Ordinance No. 766-09, passed June 8,
2009, as amended by Ordinance No.
728-13, passed May 20, 2013.”
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
298-11 not expressly amended above
shall remain unchanged and in full
force and effect.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Woods, Directors Smith,
Cox, Acting Director Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Butler.
Resolution No. 143-14.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 752-13, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland
May 20, 2013, as amended by Ordinance No. 123-14, passed March 3,
2014, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, by
and at the direction of the Board of
Control, to sell to Perk Company,
Inc. for redevelopment certain Cityowned property no longer needed for
public use, located at the northwest
corner of Crayton Avenue and East
51st Street, Cleveland, Ohio, and also
known as Permanent Parcel Numbers 123-05-030, 123-05-031, 123-05-032,
123-05-033, 123-05-034, 123-05-065, 12305-066 and 123-05-067, for a price not
less than $50,000 and other valuable
consideration, which is determined
to be fair market value; now, therefore,

456

April 9, 2014
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
752-13, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland May 20, 2013, as
amended by Ordinance No. 123-14,
passed March 3, 2014, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
directed to sell to Perk Company,
Inc. for redevelopment certain Cityowned property no longer needed for
public use, located at the northwest
corner of Crayton Avenue and East
51st Street, Cleveland, Ohio, and also
known as Permanent Parcel Numbers 123-05-030, 123-05-031, 123-05-032,
123-05-033, 123-05-034, 123-05-065, 12305-066 and 123-05-067, for the price of
Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00)
which, in accordance with a promissory note and purchase money mortgage, will be paid in five annual
payments of $10,000 each.
Be it further resolved that the
Mayor of the City of Cleveland is
requested to execute and deliver the
official deed of the City of Cleveland conveying the property, which
document shall contain such additional terms and conditions as the
Director of Law shall deem necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Woods, Directors Smith,
Cox, Acting Director Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Butler.
Resolution No. 144-14.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 007-17-050 located at 2655 West
41st Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Sheila Pemberton has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Sheila Pemberton
for the sale and development of Per-

The City Record

April 9, 2014
manent Parcel No. 007-17-050 located
at 2655 West 41st Street, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Woods, Directors Smith,
Cox, Acting Director Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Butler.
Resolution No. 145-14.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 016-19-044 located at 3459 West
52nd Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Ramon Rodriguez has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
with
Ramon
of
Cleveland,
Rodriguez for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 01619-044 located at 3459 West 52nd
Street, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Woods, Directors Smith,
Cox, Acting Director Withers, Directors Rush, Southerington, Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Butler.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, APRIL 21, 2014
9:30 A.M.
Violation Notice
Calendar No. 14-043: 3226 West 35
Street (Ward 14)
Leah Burchnell, owner, appeals
from a Notice of Violation issued on
March 13, 2014 by the Cleveland
Department of Building and Housing for unauthorized use of 3226
West 35th Street as a motor vehicles
repair and storage of wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, and or unlicensed motor vehicles in a Two
Family District which is contrary to
Sections 337.23 of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances. (Filed 3-20-14)
Calendar No. 14-044: 17149 Saint Clair
Avenue (Ward 10)
All City Recycling, Inc., owner,
appeals for an expansion of junk
yard use to include wrecking and
dismantling of motor vehicles on an
irregular shaped lot in split zoning
between C2 Semi-Industry and B3
General Industry Districts; subject
to the limitations under Section
345.03 the proposed wrecking and
dismantling of motor vehicles is not
permitted in a Semi-Industry District and an expansion of nonconforming use requires the Board of
Zoning Appeals approval, according
to the provisions under Section
359.01 in the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances. (Filed 3-21-14)

457

13
Calendar No. 14-045: 4384 Lee Road
(Ward 1)
Johnny
Abounader,
owner,
appeals to establish use as motor
vehicle repair and used auto sales
in a C1 Local Retail Business District and contrary to Section 343.01
(b) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances
a
motor
vehicle
repair
garage is not permitted in a Local
Retail Business District but first
permitted in a Semi-Industry District per Section 345.03(c) (2); and
used auto sales is not permitted in
a Local Retail Business District but
first permitted in a General Retail
Business
District
per
Section
343.11(b) (2)(H) (4); and pursuant
to Section 349.04 a detailed parking
plan showing location of striped ,
accessory off-street parking spaces
is required to determine compliance
with parking count requirements
and no plan was submitted, said
detailed
plan
should
have
also
shown areas used for accessory offstreet parking being paved and
drained per Section 349.07 and no
detail is given; and subject to Section 352.08-.12 a
six
foot wide
frontage strip providing 50% year
round opacity is required where
parking abuts the street and none is
shown; and subject to Section 341.02
(a) exterior alterations of site in a
designated Design Review District
requires the review and approval of
the
City
Planning
Commission.
(Filed 3-24-14)
Calendar No. 14-046: 2390 East 30th
Street (Ward 5)
Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing
Authority, owner, appeals to construct 60 dwelling units, stores and
office building on a corner parcel
located in a C1 Multi-Family Residential District, said construction
being contrary to Section 337.08 of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances
pertaining to permitted uses in a
Multi-Family
Residential
District
and Section 343.01 which states that
a store and office are first permitted in a Local Retail Business District; subject to the limitations in
Section 353.01 (b) the maximum
height permitted in a ‘1’ Height District is 35 feet and 48 feet is proposed; and pursuant to Section 357.04
a 27 foot front setback is required
along E. 30th Street and 30' along
Community College Avenue and 22'
and 27' respectively are proposed;
and subject to Section 349.04 the
required number of parking spaces
is 87 and 63 parking spaces are
required, and contrary to Section
349.15 five bicycle parking spaces
required and none are proposed.
(Filed 3-25-14)
REHEARING
(from March 17, 2014)
Calendar No. 14-022: 5209 Detroit
Avenue (Ward 15)
Westside Ministries, owner, and
The Centers for Families and Children, tenant, appeals to erect six
new wall signs varying in size in
addition to the two existing wall
signs on a two story brick building
located in a C2 Local Retail Business District and a B1 Semi-Industry District and contrary to Section
350.15 of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances the maximum square
footage for wall signs allowed is 121
square feet and 226 feet are proposed. (Filed 2-21-2014)

The City Record

14
Changes were made to the plan,
after the hearing, that need to come
back before the Board.
POSTPONED
FROM MARCH 17, 2014
Calendar No. 14-021: 4108 Clinton
Avenue (Ward 3)
Alexandru Bardan, owner, appeals
to erect a 12' x 26' one story frame
attached garage addition to an
existing two-family residence located in a B1 Two-Family Residential
District and contrary to Section
355.04 (b) of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances the maximum gross floor
area shall not exceed 50 percent of
the lot area of 1,828 square feet and
2,395 square feet are proposed; and
subject to Section 357.08 (b) (1) the
required rear yard is 24 feet and 10
feet are proposed; and pursuant to
Section 357.09 (2) (A) and (B) no
building shall be erected less than
10 feet from a main building on an
adjoining lot within a Residence
District and 4 feet are proposed and
the minimum required interior side
yard of 3 feet is allowed and 2 feet
are proposed and the total width of
both interior side yards on the same
premises must be 10 feet and 4 feet
are proposed; and subject to the limitations set forth in Section 357.13
(c) (2) the eaves shall not project
more than 2 feet into the interior
side yard and the proposed eaves
are 3 inches from property line.
(Filed 2-20-2014 no testimony taken)
First postponement requested by
the Councilman in order to allow for
time for block club meeting.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, APRIL 7, 2014
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, April 7,
2014, the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 14-030: 12701 Shaker
Boulevard
Shaker
North
LLC,
owner,
appealed to convert an existing nonconforming seven story apartment
building from 101 dwelling units
and 19 rooming occupancies to 120
dwelling units.
Calendar No. 14-032: 4125 Lorain
Avenue
JC
Land
Holdings,
owner,
appealed to change the use from
storefront/office to bar with accessory brewery.
Calendar No. 14-033: 3002 Franklin
Boulevard
Nicholas Comella, owner, appealed
to change the use of an existing
8,000 square foot rear commercial
building to a three family residence.
Calendar No. 13-247: 4414-20 Pearl
Road
Brian Bodach, owner, appealed to
change the use from retail to three
residential units in an existing one
story brick building.

The
following
DENIED:

April 9, 2014

appeal

was

Calendar No. 14-029 8206 Wade Park
Phyllis Wilson, owner, appealed to
change the use of a single family
home to a “Type A” daycare in a
Multi-Family Residential District.
The following appeal was WITHDRAWN:
Violation Notice
Calendar No. 14-028: 1332 Carnegie
Avenue
Michael Maloof, owner
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.
The following appeal was POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 14-007 2525 Jay Street
2515 Company, LLC, owner Postponed to May 19, 2014 at 9:30 a.m.
The following appeals were heard
by the Board on March 31, 2014 and
the decisions were adopted and
approved on April 7, 2014;
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 14-025: 11701 Superior
Avenue
Market
Redevelopment,
LLC.,
and
Checkers
Drive-In
owner,
Restaurants, tenant, appeals to erect
a 1,074 square foot drive through
restaurant in a C2 Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 14-026: 1938 Holmden
Avenue
Eric Lutzo, owner, appeals to
erect a 20' x 30' 2 story frame
reverse gable accessory garage on a
40' x 150' parcel located in a B1
Two Family District.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE
On March 3, 2014, Cleveland City
Council passed Ordinance No. 280-14
authorizing the submission to the
electors of the City of Cleveland of
a proposal to amend the Charter of
the City of Cleveland by amending
existing Section 33 to allow for legislation to be presented in electronic, digital, written or printed form.
The language that will appear on
the ballot for the May 6, 2014 election is as follows:
ISSUE 11
PROPOSED CHARTER
AMENDMENT
CITY OF CLEVELAND
A majority affirmative
required for passage.

vote

is

Shall Section 33 of the Charter of
the City of Cleveland be amended to
provide that copies of ordinances
and resolutions shall be introduced
in the Council in electronic, digital,
written or printed form, and that
members of council shall receive an
electronic, digital, written or printed copy of an ordinance prior to the
final reading of that ordinance?
For
more
information,
go
to
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org.
_____
March 26, 2014, April 2, 2014, April
9, 2014, April 16, 2014, April 23, 2014,
and April 30, 2014

PUBLIC NOTICE
Calendar No. 14-039: 2098 West 7th
Street
Mathew
A.
Picorelli,
owner,
appeals to erect 43 linear feet of
masonry retain wall 14 feet high
with concrete steps.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Violation Notice
Calendar No. 13-263: 2267 East 83rd
Street
Timothy Willis, owner, appeals
from a Notice of Violation issued on
November 5, 2013 by the Cleveland
Department of Building and Housing.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:

appeals

were

None.
The following
MISSED:

appeal

was

DIS-

Calendar No. 14-027: 18311 Landseer
Road
Irene
Lalak
Trustee,
owner,
appeals to install a 16' x 8' x 8'
high metal temporary storage pdod
for storage of household items for 3
months.

458

PROCLAMATION
NOTICE OF PRIMARY ELECTION
R.C. 3501.03
The Board of Elections of Cuyahoga
County,
Ohio
issues
this
Proclamation and Notice of Election.
A PRIMARY ELECTION
WILL BE HELD ON
TUESDAY, the 6th Day of May, 2014
at the usual places of holding elections in each and every precinct in
Cuyahoga County or at such places
as the Board may designate, to nominate party candidates and to select
members of controlling committees
of political parties:
DEMOCRATIC PRIMARY
Governor and Lieutenant Governor
ONE (1)
Attorney General ONE (1)
Auditor of State ONE (1)
Secretary of State ONE (1)
Treasurer of State ONE (1)
Representative to Congress ONE
(1) From the 9th, 11th, 14th, and
16th Congressional Districts
Justice of the Supreme Court ONE
(1) Full Term Commencing 1/1/2015

April 9, 2014
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/2/2015
Judge of the Court of Appeals
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
2/9/2015
(Eighth District) ONE (1) Full
Term Commencing 2/10/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
2/11/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
2/12/2015
Member of State Central Committee, Man ONE (1) From the 21st,
23rd, 24th and 25th State Senate Districts
Member of State Central Committee Woman ONE (1) From the 21st,
23rd, 24th and 25th State Senate Districts
State Senator ONE (1) From the
21st, 23rd and 25th State Senate Districts
State
Representative
ONE
(1)
From the 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th,
12th, 13th, 14th, 15th and 16th
Judge of the Court of Common
Pleas ONE (1) Full Term Commencing 1/1/2015
(General Division) ONE (1) Full
Term Commencing 1/2/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/3/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/4/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/5/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/6/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/7/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/10/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
2/9/2015
ONE (1) Unexpired Term Ending
1/11/2017
Judge of the Court of Common
Pleas ONE (1) Full Term Commencing 1/8/2015
(Domestic
Relations
Division)
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/9/2015
ONE (1) Unexpired Term Ending
1/12/17
Cuyahoga
County
of
Member
Council ONE (1) From the 1st, 3rd,
5th, 7th, 9th and 11th
ONE (1) 10th District Unexpired
Term Ending 12/31/2016
Member of County Central Committee ONE (1) From most precincts
REPUBLICAN PRIMARY
Governor and Lieutenant Governor
ONE (1)
Attorney General ONE (1)
Auditor of State ONE (1)
Secretary of State ONE (1)
Treasurer of State ONE (1)
Representative to Congress ONE
(1) From the 9th, 11th, 14th, and
16th Congressional Districts
Justice of the Supreme Court ONE
(1) Full Term Commencing 1/1/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/2/2015
Judge of the Court of Appeals
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
2/9/2015
(Eighth District) ONE (1) Full
Term Commencing 2/10/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
2/11/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
2/12/2015
Member of State Central Committee, Man ONE (1) From the 21st,
23rd, 24th and 25th State Senate Districts
Member of State Central Committee Woman ONE (1) From the 21st,

The City Record
23rd, 24th and 25th State Senate Districts
State Senator ONE (1) From the
21st, 23rd and 25th State Senate Districts
State
Representative
ONE
(1)
From the 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th,
12th, 13th, 14th, 15th and 16th
Judge of the Court of Common
Pleas ONE (1) Full Term Commencing 1/1/2015
(General Division) ONE (1) Full
Term Commencing 1/2/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/3/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/4/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/5/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/6/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/7/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/10/2015
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
2/9/2015
ONE (1) Unexpired Term Ending
1/11/2017
Judge of the Court of Common
Pleas ONE (1) Full Term Commencing 1/8/2015
Relations
Division)
(Domestic
ONE (1) Full Term Commencing
1/9/2015
ONE (1) Unexpired Term Ending
1/12/17
Member
of
Cuyahoga
County
Council ONE (1) From the 1st, 3rd,
5th, 7th, 9th and 11th
GREEN PRIMARY
Governor and Lieutenant Governor
ONE (1)
Member of County Central Committee SEVEN (7) From Cuyahoga
County
LIBERTARIAN PRIMARY
Auditor of State ONE (1)
Secretary of State ONE (1)
Representative to Congress ONE
(1) 14th Congressional District
Member of State Central Committee ONE (1) 14th Congressional District
And determining the following
questions and issues:
STATE ISSUES
Proposed Constitutional Amendment – Issue One – to fund public
infrastructure capital improvements
by permitting the issuance of general obligation bonds in the amount
of no more than $1.875 billion over
a ten-year period, with no more than
$175 million issued in each of the
first five fiscal years and no more
than $200 million in each of the next
five fiscal years, to be repaid annually in no more than thirty (30)
years.
SCHOOL ISSUES
BROOKLYN CITY
SCHOOL DISTRICT
Proposed Tax Levy (Renewal) –
6.7 mills for the purpose of avoiding
an operating deficit for six years.
NORTH ROYALTON CITY
SCHOOL DISTRICT
Proposed Bond Issue - $49,830,000
for the purpose of constructing, renovating, remodeling, rehabilitating,
adding to, furnishing, equipping and
otherwise improving buildings and
facilities, and preparing, equipping

459

15
and otherwise improving real estate,
for school district purposes and an
annual levy of 2.56 mills over a maximum period of 35 years.
OLMSTED FALLS CITY
SCHOOL DISTRICT
Proposed Bond Issue - $15,000,000
for the purpose of rehabilitating,
renovating, remodeling, adding to,
furnishing, equipping and otherwise
improving
Olmsted
Falls
High
School and an annual levy of 1.8
mills over a maximum period of 30
years.
PARMA CITY
SCHOOL DISTRICT
Proposed Tax Levy (Renewal) –
3.8 mills for the purpose of providing for the emergency requirements
of the Parma City School District for
ten years.
SHAKER HEIGHTS CITY SCHOOL
DISTRICT
Proposed Tax Levy (Additional) –
6.9 mills for the purpose of current
expenses for a continuing period of
time.
COUNTY ISSUES
PROPOSED EXTENSION OF
ALCOHOL AND CIGARETTE
TAXES FOR SPORTS FACILITIES
For the purpose of paying the
costs of constructing, renovating,
improving, or repairing sports facilities and reimbursing a county for
costs incurred by the county in the
construction
of
sports
facilities,
shall excise taxes be levied by
Cuyahoga County at the rate of
three dollars on each gallon of spirituous liquor sold in the county, sixteen cents per gallon on the sale of
beer at wholesale in the county,
thirty-two cents per gallon on the
sale of wine and mixed beverages
at wholesale in the county, twentyfour cents per gallon on the sale of
cider at wholesale in the county,
and 2.25 mills per cigarette on the
sale of cigarettes at wholesale in
the county, for 20 years beginning
August 1, 2015.
MUNICIPAL ISSUES
CITY OF BEDFORD HEIGHTS
Proposed Charter Amendment Shall Article XIII, Section 13.07 of
the Charter of the City of Bedford
Heights be amended to authorize to
renew a levy of taxes, in an amount
not to exceed 2 mills per year, for
the purpose of providing funds to
pay costs to repave, repair, upgrade
and maintain city streets, for a ten
years, commencing in tax year 2014?
CITY OF BROOK PARK
WARD 3 PRECINCT A
Local Option – Permitting the sale
of wine and mixed beverages on
Sunday between the hours of eleven
a.m. and midnight by True North
Energy, L.L.C., dba True North #373
at 13030 Brookpark Road, Brook
Park, OH 44135.
CITY OF BROOKLYN
PRECINCT D
Local Option – Permitting the sale
of wine and mixed beverages and
spirituous liquor on Sunday between
the hours of ten a.m. and midnight
by Brooklyn Wings, L. L. C., dba
Buffalo Wild Wings at 5020 Tiedemen Road, Brooklyn, OH 44144.

16
CITY OF CLEVELAND
Proposed Charter Amendment Shall Section 33 of the Charter of
the City of Cleveland be amended to
provide that copies of ordinances
and resolutions shall be introduced
in the Council in electronic, digital,
written or printed form, and that
members of council shall receive an
electronic, digital, written or printed copy of an ordinance prior to the
final reading of that ordinance?
CITY OF CLEVELAND WARD 15
PRECINCT A
Local Option – Permitting the sale
of wine and mixed beverages and
spirituous liquor on Sunday between
the hours of ten a.m. and midnight
by Riser Foods Company dba Clifton
Market District 5106 at 11604 Clifton
Blvd., Cleveland, OH 44102.
CITY OF CLEVELAND HEIGHTS
WARD 2 PRECINCT G
Local Option – Permitting the sale
of wine and mixed beverages on
Sunday between the hours of eleven
a.m. and midnight by True North
Energy, L. L. C., dba True North 308
at
2310
Lee
Road,
Cleveland
Heights, OH 44118.
CITY OF GARFIELD HEIGHTS
Proposed Zoning Amendment Shall Ordinance No. 56-2013 of the
City of Garfield Heights, changing
the zoning of nine (9) parcels of
land (PP# 542-12-002, 542-12-004, 54212-005, 542-12-006, 542-12-010, 542-12013, 542-12-015, 542-12-016 and 542-17010) located North of North Granger
Road, South of Midwest Avenue, and
West of Transportation Boulevard
from U-1 (Single-Family Districts)
and U-6 districts (Light Manufacturing Districts), to U-11B (Industrial Park Districts) be approved?
CITY OF MAPLE HEIGHTS
Proposed Income Tax (Increase) Shall the Ordinance providing for a
0.5% levy increase on income, to a
rate of 3% per annum, for the purpose of current expenses and general operation of the city, effective
July 1, 2014, be passed?
VILLAGE OF
NEWBURGH HEIGHTS
Proposed Ordinance - Shall the
proposed Ordinance reducing the
number of members of Village Council from six (6) to five (5) effective
for Council terms commencing January 1, 2016 be adopted?
CITY OF PARMA WARD 9
PRECINCT F
Local Option – Permitting the sale
of wine and mixed beverages and
spirituous liquor on Sunday between
the hours of ten a.m. and midnight
by Moonlight Tavern Inc. at 6174
Broadview Road, 1st fl and bsmt,
Parma, OH 44134.
CITY OF PEPPER PIKE
Proposed Tax Levy (Renewal) – 4
mills for the purpose of purpose of
providing
and
maintaining
fire
apparatus,
appliances,
buildings,
and for the payment of permanent,
part-time,
firefighter/emergency
medical service personnel to operate
the City’s fire equipment including
ambulance for five years.
CITY OF ROCKY RIVER
WARD 2 PRECINCT C
Local Option – Permitting the sale
wine and mixed beverages and spir-

The City Record
ituous liquor on Sunday between the
hours of ten a.m. and midnight by
Riser Foods Co. dba Giant Eagle
#1297 at 22080-22160 Center Ridge
Rd., Rocky River, OH 44116.
CITY OF SEVEN HILLS
Proposed Tax Levy (Renewal) –
0.5 mill for the purpose of acquiring
motorized vehicles and equipment,
including a street sweeper, a tractor
with front-end loader and backhoe,
a mower, dump trucks, pick-up
trucks, and snow plow assemblies,
salt spreaders and other related
equipment therefor, for use in carrying out functions of the Department of Public Service for five
years.
CITY OF SOUTH EUCLID
WARD 4 PRECINCT D
Local Option – Permitting the sale
of wine and mixed beverages on
Sunday between the hours of eleven
a.m. and midnight by True North
Energy, L. L. C., dba True North
#356 at 14473 Cedar Road, South
Euclid, OH 44121.
CITY OF STRONGSVILLE
Proposed Tax Levy (Renewal) –
1.5 mills for the purpose of current
expenses for five years.
CITY OF STRONGSVILLE
Proposed Zoning Amendment Shall the Zoning Map of Strongsville
be amended to change the classification of certain real estate located
at 8422 Pearl Road (part of PP# 39505-012) for the purpose of rezoning
the property from its present zoning
classification of R1-75 (One Family
75) to GB (General Business) classification?
CITY OF STRONGSVILLE
WARD 2 PRECINCT E
Local Option – Permitting the sale
of wine and mixed beverages and
spirituous liquor on Sunday between
the hours of ten a.m. and midnight
by Tamarkin Co. dba Giant Eagle
4086
at
15919
Road,
Pearl
Strongsville, OH 44149.
The polls for the election will be
open at 6:30 a.m. and will remain
open until 7:30 p.m. on election day.
BY ORDER OF
THE BOARD OF ELECTIONS,
CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO
INAJO DAVIS CHAPPELL, CHAIR
PAT MCDONALD, DIRECTOR
PROCLAMACIÓN AVISO
DE ELECCIÓN PRIMARIA
R.C. 3501.03
La Junta Electoral del Condado de
Cuyahoga, Ohio, publica esta Proclamación y Aviso de Elección.
SE CELEBRAR UNA
ELECCIÓN PRIMARIA
EL MARTES, 6 de mayo de 2014
en los lugares usuales para celebrar elecciones en todos y cada uno
de los distritos electorales del Condado de Cuyahoga o en los lugares
que pueda designar la Junta, con el
fin de elegir candidatos del partido
y
seleccionar
miembros
de
los
comités del control de los partidos
polóticos:
PRIMARIA DEMÓCRATA
Gobernador
y
Vicegobernador
UNO (1)
Fiscal General UNO (1)
Auditor del Estado UNO (1)
Secretario de Estado UNO (1)

460

April 9, 2014
Tesorero del Estado UNO (1)
Representante al Congreso UNO
(1) Distritos 9, 11, 14 y 16 del Congreso
Juez del Tribunal Supremo UNO
(1) Período Completo Comenzando el
1/1/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 1/2/15
Juez del Tribunal de Apelaciones
(Distrito Ocho) UNO (1) Período
Completo Comenzando el 2/9/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 2/10/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 2/11/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 2/12/15
Miembro del Comité Central del
Estado, Hombre UNO (1) Distritos
21, 23, 24 y 25 del Senado del Estado
Miembro del Comité Central del
Estado, Mujer UNO (1) Distritos 21,
23, 24 y 25 del Senado del Estado
Senador del Estado UNO (1) Distritos 21, 23 y 25 del Senado del
Estado
Representante del Estado UNO (1)
De los Distritos 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13,
14, 15 y 16 del Representante del
Estado
Juez del Tribunal de Causas
Comunes UNO (1) Período Completo
Comenzando el 1/1/15
(División General) UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 1/2/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 1/3/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 1/4/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 1/5/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 1/6/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 1/7/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 1/10/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 2/9/15
UNO (1) Período Inconcluso que
Finaliza el 1/11/17
Juez del Tribunal de Causas
Comunes UNO (1) Período Completo
Comenzando el 1/8/15
(División de Relaciones Doméstic)
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 1/9/15
UNO (1) Período Inconcluso que
Finaliza el 1/12/17
Miembro del Consejo del Condado
UNO (1) Distritos 1, 3, 5, 7, 9 y 11
UNO (1) Distrito 10, Período Inconcluso que Finaliza el 12/31/16
Miembro del Comité Central del
Condado UNO (1) De la mayoría de
los distritos electorales
PRIMARIA REPUBLICANA
Gobernador
y
Vicegobernador
UNO (1)
Fiscal General UNO (1)
Auditor del Estado UNO (1)
Secretario de Estado UNO (1)
Tesorero del Estado UNO (1)
Representante al Congreso UNO
(1) Distritos 9, 11, 14 y 16 del Congreso
Juez del Tribunal Supremo UNO
(1) Período Completo Comenzando el
1/1/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 1/2/15
Juez del Tribunal de Apelaciones
(Distrito Ocho) UNO (1) Período
Completo Comenzando el 2/9/15
UNO (1) Período Completo Comenzando el 2/10/15
_____
April 9, 2014 and April 30, 2014

The City Record

April 9, 2014
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
DIVISION OF TREASURY
STATEMENT OF CASH
MANAGEMENT AND
INVESTMENT POLICY

Investment Objectives

Effective April 9, 2009

All Portfolios shall be managed to
accomplish the following hierarchy
of objectives:

Table of Contents

Purpose . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scope of Investment Policy. . . . .
Investment Objectives . . . . . . . . . .
Delegation of Authority . . . . . . . .
Standard of Prudence . . . . . . . . . .
Ethics and Conflict of Interest .
Authorized Investments . . . . . . . .
Diversification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Maximum Maturity . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prohibited Investments and
Investment Practices . . . . . . . . .
Monitoring and Adjusting the
Portfolio. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Internal Controls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eligible Banks and
Broker/Dealers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Competitive Selection of
Investment Instruments . . . . . .
Safekeeping and Custody. . . . . . .
Performance Standards . . . . . . . . .
Reporting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Conflict of Law . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Investment Policy Effective
Date. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

The City’s investments shall be segregated into distinct portfolios, including portfolios for the General
Fund, and the Divisions of Water,
Airport, Utilities, Cemeteries, Safety,
and Railroads. Total Average Portfolio, as defined in this policy, shall
mean the average of the month-end
market values for the prior twelve
(12) month period of an individual
portfolio.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

3
3
3
4
4
4
5
5
6

..6
..6
..7
..7
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

7
8
8
8
8

..8

1.  Preservation of Principal – The
single most important objective
of the City of Cleveland investment program is the preservation of principal of those funds
within the Portfolio.
2.  Maintenance of Liquidity – The
Portfolio shall be managed in
such a manner that assures that
funds are available as needed to
meet those immediate and/or
future operating requirements
of the City of Cleveland.
3.  Maximize Return – The Portfolio shall be managed in such a
fashion as to attain a marketaverage rate of return throughout budgetary and economic
cycles, within the context and
parameters set forth by objectives 1 and 2 above.

Purpose
Delegation of Authority
The purpose of this document is to
identify the policy that will govern
the investment activities of the
Treasurer’s Office of the City of
Cleveland. This policy has been
adopted by, and, if necessary, will
be revised on an annual basis by,
the Director of Finance.
This policy is designed to ensure
prudent
management
of
public
funds, conformance to Chapter 178
of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland, availability of
operating and capital funds when
needed, and an investment return
competitive with comparable funds
and financial market indices.
All participants in the investment
process shall act responsibly as custodians of the public trust. Investment officials shall recognize that
the investment portfolio is subject
to public review and evaluation. The
overall program shall be designed
and managed with a degree of professionalism that is worthy of the
public trust.

The Treasurer is responsible for the
prudent investment of the City of
Cleveland Treasury and shall oversee the establishment of investment
procedures consistent with this policy. Such procedures shall include
explicit delegation of authority to
persons responsible for investment
transactions. No person may engage
in an investment transaction except
as provided under the terms of this
policy and the procedures established by the Treasurer. The Treasurer shall be responsible for all
trades undertaken, and shall establish a system of controls to regulate
the activities of subordinate officials and shall exercise control over
that staff. Investment staff shall be
bonded in amounts appropriate to
levels of responsibility and portfolio
characteristics.
The City’s Internal Auditor will
review the investment program to
ensure compliance with this policy.

Scope of the Investment Policy

Standard of Prudence

This policy applies to the investment of all moneys of the City of
Cleveland under the custody and
control of the Division of Treasury.
Any practice not clearly authorized
under this policy is prohibited. The
guidance set forth herein is to be
strictly followed by all those responsible for any aspect of the management or administration of these
funds.

The standard of prudence to be
applied to the investment of the City
of Cleveland shall be the industry
standard “Prudent Investor Rule”,
which states:

“Investments shall be made with
judgment and care, under circumstances then prevailing which
persons of prudence, discretion
and intelligence exercise in the

461

17
management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
investment, considering the probable safety of their capital as
well as the probable income to
be derived.”
Treasury staff acting in accordance
with this policy or any other written procedures pertaining to the
administration and management of
the City of Cleveland and who exercise the proper due diligence shall
be relieved of personal responsibility for an individual security’s credit risk or market price changes, provided that these deviations are
reported immediately to the Treasurer and that appropriate action is
taken to control and prevent any
further adverse developments.

Ethics and Conflict of Interest
Employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from personal business activity that could
conflict with the proper execution
and management of the investment
program, or that could impair their
ability to make impartial decisions.
Further, no employee involved in
the investment process shall use the
authority to influence of office or
employment to secure anything of
value or the promise or offer of anything of value that would create an
improper influence upon the public
official or employee with respect to
that person’s duties.
Employees and investment officials
shall comply fully with the reporting and disclosure requirements of
Chapter 102 of the Ohio Revised
Code.

Authorized Instruments
The Treasurer is authorized to invest the City of Cleveland in instruments as described in section 178.12
of the Codified Ordinances as summarized and restricted below:
A.  U.S. Treasury Obligations. United
States Treasury bills, notes, or
any other obligation or security
issued by the United States Treasury or any other obligation
guaranteed as to principal and
interest by the United States.
B.  Federal Agency Obligations. Bonds,
notes, debentures, or other obligations or securities issued by any
federal government agency or
instrumentality.
C.  State and Municipal Bonds and
Notes. Bonds and notes of the
State of Ohio, and any municipal
corporation, village, county, township, or other political subdivision
of Ohio for which the full faith
and credit of the subdivision is
pledged, so long as such subdivision has not defaulted in the payment of principal or interest on
its bonds or notes within the last
ten (10) years.
D.  State Pool. State of Ohio Local
Agency Investment Pool (STAR
Ohio) authorized under section
135.45 of the Ohio Revised Code.

The City Record

18
E.  Bank Deposits. Time certificates
of deposit (not to exceed one [1]
year)
or
savings
or
deposit
accounts in an eligible institution as defined in Chapter 178 of
the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland. Collateralization is required on all deposits of
City funds as stated in Chapter
178 of the Codified Ordinances of
the City of Cleveland.
F.  U.S. Government money market
mutual funds. Issued by open
ended investment companies registered with the SEC, with an
average maturity of one hundred
twenty (120) days or less, which
have the objective of maintaining a constant net asset value
per share, and which invest exclusively in U.S. Treasury Obligations, Federal Agency Obligations, and repurchase agreements
secured by such obligations.
G.  Repurchase Agreements. Specific
agreements shall not exceed a
term of one (1) year with any eligible depository or designated
securities broker/dealer which
has entered into a master repurchase agreement pursuant to Codified Ordinance Section 178.12, division (c), under the terms of
which agreement the City Treasurer purchases for the City, and
such eligible depository or securities broker/dealer agrees to
unconditionally repurchase, any
of the securities listed in Section
178.12, divisions (b)(1), (b)(2), or
(b)(3), of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland.

Diversification
Each Portfolio shall be structured to
diversify investments to reduce the
risk of loss resulting from over-concentration of assets in a specific
maturity, a specific issuer or a specific type of security. The maximum
percentage of the Total Average
Portfolio permitted in each security
is as follows:
A. U.S. Treasury
B. Federal Agency
(Fixed Rate)
C. Federal Agency
(Callable)
D. Certificates of
Deposit
E. Repurchase
Agreements
F. State Bonds and
Notes
G. Municipal Bonds
and Notes
H. STAR Ohio
I. Money Market
Mutual Funds

100% maximum
100% maximum
55% maximum
25% maximum
25% maximum
10% maximum
10% maximum
75% maximum
75% maximum

Each Portfolio will be further diversified to limit the exposure to any
one issuer. No more than 2% of the
Total Average Portfolio will be
invested in the securities of any single issuer with the following exceptions:
U.S. Government
Obligations
100% maximum
Money Market
Mutual Funds
10% maximum
Repurchase Agreements
Counterparties
5% maximum

Maximum Maturity
Maintenance of adequate liquidity to
meet the cash flow needs of the City
is essential. Accordingly, each Portfolio will be structured in a manner
that ensures sufficient cash is available to meet anticipated liquidity
needs. Selection of investment maturities must be consistent with the
cash requirements in order to avoid
the forced sale of securities prior to
maturity.
Assets will be invested in permitted
investments with a stated maturity
of no more than five (5) years from
the date of purchase unless the security is matched to a specific obligation or debt of the City. To control
the volatility of the assets, the Treasurer of the City will determine a
duration target, not to exceed three
(3) years.
Notwithstanding these limitations,
in no case will the assets in any
Portfolio be invested in securities
with
a
term
to
maturity
that
exceeds the expected disbursement
date of those funds.

Prohibited Investments and
Investment Practices
The Treasurer is expressly prohibited from the following investments
and investment practices. This is
not an exclusive list.
1.  Short sales (selling a specific
security before it has been
legally purchased);
2.  Investment in complex derivatives such as range notes, dual
index notes, inverse floating
rate
notes
and
deleveraged
notes, or notes linked to lagging
indices or to long-term indices;
3.  Collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs) and real estate
mortgage investment conduits
(REMICs);
4.  Investing in any security not
specifically permitted by this
Policy.

Monitoring and Adjusting the
Portfolio
Those responsible for the day-to-day
management of the Portfolios will
routinely monitor the contents of
each Portfolio, the available markets and the relative values of competing instruments, and will adjust
each Portfolio as necessary to meet
the
investment
objectives
listed
above. It is recognized and understood that this non-speculative active management of Portfolio holdings may cause a loss on the sale
of an owned investment. It is the
policy of the City of Cleveland to
charge any such loss against the
interest income account during the
month in which the loss was realized.
The City of Cleveland Office of Budget and Management, on a quarterly
basis,
allocates
the
net
income/losses earned on investments
of the General Revenue Account to
various funds based on each fund’s

462

April 9, 2014
cash balance in proportion to the
City of Cleveland as a whole.

Internal Controls
The City Treasurer is responsible
for monitoring a system of internal
controls governing the administration and management of the Portfolio which include a review of all
investment activity, trade reconciliation, and targeting cash balances.
Such controls are designed to prevent and control losses of the City
funds arising from fraud, employee
error, misrepresentation by third
parties, unanticipated changes in
financial
markets,
or
imprudent
actions by any personnel. The internal controls address: control of collusion, separation of duties, separating transaction authority from
accounting and record keeping, custodial safekeeping, clear delegation
of authority, written confirmation of
telephone transactions, minimizing
the number of authorized investments officials and documentation
of investment transactions.

Eligible Banks and Broker/Dealers
The Director of Finance will establish and the Treasurer will maintain
a list of eligible brokers, dealers,
and banks with which investment
transactions
can
be
made,
as
described in Section 178.11 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland. Qualified firms will be
limited to “primary” dealers and
other dealers that qualify under
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15C3-1 (uniform net capital rule) that are registered with
the Ohio Department of Commerce
to do business in the State of Ohio.
All financial institutions and broker
dealers must provide the following
information, on an annual basis:
1.  Sworn statement pledging to
adhere to “Capital Adequacy
Standards”
2.  Annual financial statements for
the most recent year showing
the amount of liquid capital
3.  A written statement from a certified public accountant certifying no weakness in the internal
systems of controls of the dealer or broker were found
4.  A completed “Broker/Dealer Request for Information” and all
documentation required by Section 178.12 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland.
Preference will be given to banks
and broker/dealers who are headquartered or maintain a presence in
the City of Cleveland.
Financial
institutions
and
broker/dealers will be required to comply with this policy and to pledge
to offer for sale only appropriate
securities.

Competitive Selection of Investment
Instruments
It will be the policy of the Treasurer to transact all security purchases/sales only with approved

April 9, 2014
financial institutions through a competitive process. The City shall
accept the offer which (a) has the
highest rate of return within the
maturity required; and (b) optimizes
the investment objective of the overall portfolio. When selling a security, the Treasurer will select the bid
that generates the highest sale
price.
Primary fixed price Federal Agency
offerings may be purchased from
the list of qualified broker/dealers
without competitive solicitation.
In making investment decisions, all
other things being equal and subject
to compliance with any applicable
Internal Revenue Code requirements
for bond proceeds, investment in corporations and financial institutions
doing business in the City of Cleveland will be given preference over
other investment options.

The City Record
shall include: (i.) a listing of the
existing
portfolios
in
terms
of
investment securities, book value,
maturity date, return, market value,
and other features deemed relevant,
(ii.) a listing of all transactions executed during the month. The City
Treasurer will also prepare annual
reports in sufficient detail to provide full disclosure of all investment
activities to the Director of Finance.

Conflict of Law
In the event that any portion of this
policy is in conflict with any City,
State, or Federal law, that law will
prevail.

All securities in the Portfolio shall
be held in the name of the Treasurer of the City of Cleveland and
will be free and clear of any lien.
Further, all investment transactions
will be conducted on a delivery-vs.payment basis. The depository shall
issue a safekeeping receipt to the
Treasurer listing the specific instrument, rate, maturity and other
pertinent information.
Appropriate Treasury officials and
representatives of the depository
responsible for, or in any manner
involved with, the safekeeping and
custody process of the City of Cleveland shall be bonded in such a fashion as to protect the City from losses from malfeasance and misfeasance.

Performance Standards
The investment portfolios shall be
designed and managed with the
objective of obtaining a market rate
of return throughout budgetary and
economic cycles, commensurate with
the investment risk constraints and
cash flows needs of the City.

Reporting
The City Treasury shall maintain
accurate,
complete,
and
timely
records of all investment activities.
Each business day, the Treasurer
shall provide the Commissioner of
Accounts and the City Controller a
sworn statement (Daily Treasurer’s
Report) showing the total amount
deposited in and withdrawn from
each depository from the preceding
business day. Within fifteen (15)
business days of the end of the
month, the City Treasurer shall submit an investment report to the
Director of Finance. This report

FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 2014
File No. 45-14 — Purchase of Recycling Bins, for the Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Department of Port Control, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 17, 2014 AT
1:00 P.M. THE DEPARTMENT
OF PORT CONTROL, CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT’S FEDERAL SERVICE STATION BUILDING, 5301
WEST HANGAR ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135-3193.

Investment Policy Effective Date
This policy is adopted this 9th day
of April 2009 and shall remain in
effect until rescinded or amended by
the Director of Finance.
Sharon Dumas
Director of Finance

Safekeeping and Custody
All investment securities purchased
by the Treasurer or held as collateral on deposits or investments shall
be held in third-party safekeeping at
the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland or at a secured and insured
depository as required by Chapter
178 of the City of Cleveland Codified
Ordinance and Section 113.05 of the
Ohio Revised Code.

19

_____
April 9, 2014

CITY of CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”

463

April 9, 2014 and April 16, 2014
FRIDAY, MAY 2, 2014
File No. 43-14 — 1201 Lakeside
Avenue Customer Lobby Improvement, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 155413, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, February 10,
2014.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) ONLY IN THE FORM OF
A CASHIER’S CHECK OR A
MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 17, 2014 AT
2:30 P.M. THE CARL B. STOKES,
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, 2ND
FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
File No. 44-14 — Maintaining and
Repairing
Detention
Basins,
Facilities and Structures, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 651-09, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 8,
2009.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) ONLY IN THE FORM OF
A CASHIER’S CHECK OR A
MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, APRIL 21, 2014 AT 1:30 P.M.
THE DIVISION OF WATER POLLUTION CONTROL, 12302 KIRBY

The City Record

20
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44108.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
File No. 46-14 — Bunker Gear Suits,
for the Various Divisions of Port
Control, Department of Port Control, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, APRIL 22, 2014 AT
9:00
A.M.
THE
CLEVELAND
HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S, AIRPORT RESCUE
FIRE
FIGHTING
BUILDING,
5651 POSTAL ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135-3193.
April 9, 2014 and April 16, 2014

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 430-14.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit at 1104 Rowley
Avenue, and repealing Resolution No
175-14, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D2,
D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to
M&ME CLE LLC, DBA: Rowley Inn,
1104 Rowley Avenue, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent No. 5376715 by Resolution No.
175-14 adopted by the Council on February 3, 2014; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of location of a D2, D2X, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to M&ME
CLE LLC, DBA: Rowley Inn, 1104
Rowley Avenue, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent No. 5376715, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
175-14, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

Res. No. 440-14.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Members Zone, Brancatelli, Pruitt,
Dow, J. Johnson, Brady, Reed,
Mitchell and Cleveland.
An emergency resolution Supporting the observance of “Earth Hour
2014” on Saturday March 29, 2014.
Whereas, on March 29, 2014, the
world once again observed “Earth
Hour” when hundreds of millions of
people, organizations, corporations
and governments around the world
came together to make a bold statement about their concern for climate
change by turning off their lights for
one hour between the 8:30 pm and 9:30
pm; and
Whereas, in the United States, participants turned off their lights, sending a clear message that we want to
“turn out the lights” on dirty air, dangerous dependency on foreign oil and
costly climate change impacts, and
make the switch to cleaner air, a
strong economic future and a more
secure nation; and
Whereas, since its inception seven
years ago, Earth Hour has become a
global phenomenon; and
Whereas, more than 7000 cities and
towns in 150 countries worldwide
switched off their lights for Earth
Hour 2014, in the annual display of
commitment to protect our planet; and
Whereas, as in years past, during
Earth Hour 2014, iconic buildings and
landmarks from Asia Pacific to
Europe and Africa to the Americas
were switched off; people across the
world from all walks of life turned off
their lights and came together in celebration and contemplation of the one
thing we all have in common – our
planet; and
Whereas, landmarks from around
the world went dark for Earth Hour
2014, including: the Empire State
Building; the Brooklyn Bridge; Broadway Theater Marquees; the Las
Vegas Strip; United Nations Headquarters; the Golden Gate Bridge;
Seattle’s Space Needle; Church of Latter-Day Saints Temple; the Gateway
Arch in St Louis; the Great Pyramids
of Giza; the Acropolis and Parthenon
in Athens; Christ the Redeemer Statue in Rio de Janeiro; St. Peter’s Basilica in Vatican City; Big Ben and Houses of Parliament in London; Elysee
Palace and Eiffel Tower in Paris; Beijing’s Bird Nest and Water Cube; Symphony of Lights in Hong Kong; and
Sydney’s Opera House; and
Whereas, many Northeast Ohio
municipalities, businesses and citizens participated in this year’s Earth
Hour; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the observance of Earth Hour
2014 on March 29, 2014.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeand
diately
upon
its
adoption
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

464

April 9, 2014
Ord. No. 1592-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects
to issue a permit to Tower City
Avenue LLC to encroach into the
public right-of-way of West Prospect
Avenue by installing, using, and
maintaining a valet parking area
consisting of a primary and 3 secondary canopies with columns, a
raised concrete island with 4 light
poles and flags and 4 cable light
strands stretching from the Tower
City vestibule across West Prospect
Avenue to the Tower City rotunda.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit, revocable at the will of Council, to Tower City Avenue LLC., 1360
Terminal Tower, 50 Public Square,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113 (“Permittee”),
to encroach into the public right-ofway of West Prospect Avenue by
installing, using, and maintaining a
valet parking area consisting of a primary and 3 secondary canopies with
columns, a raised concrete island
with 4 light poles and flags and 4
cable light strands stretching from
the Tower City vestibule across West
Prospect Avenue to the Tower City
rotunda at the following location:
28' by 90' Valet Parking Area
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
of part of original two acre lot numbers 81 and 82 further described as follows:
Being a rectangular area encroaching 28 feet into the right of way and
extending northwesterly 90 feet
along the north right of way of West
Prospect Avenue approximately 179
feet northwest of the intersection of
the centerlines of West 2nd Street and
West Prospect Avenue.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Capital Projects. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans and
specifications first approved by the
Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain
all other required permits, including
but not limited to Building Permits,
before
installing
the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
a prospective Permittee has properly
indemnified the City against any loss
that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry
to
the
encroachment
location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure

April 9, 2014
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

Ord. No. 191-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
County of Cuyahoga for the resurfacing of Biddulph Road from the Cleveland west corporation line to Pearl
Road; authorizing the Director of
Capital Projects to enter into any relative agreements; and to apply for
and accept an allocation of County
Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds for
the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Consent. That it is
declared to be in the public interest
that the consent of the City of Cleveland is given to the County of Cuyahoga (the “County”) to construct the
following improvement under plans,
specifications,
and
estimates
approved by the County: resurfacing
of Biddulph Road from the Cleveland
west corporation line to Pearl Road,
County Project ID No. 1134 (the
“Improvement”).
Section 2. Cooperation
(a) That the City will cooperate
with the County in the Improvement.
(b) That the County will arrange
for the preparation of construction
plans and specifications, including
necessary engineering reports for the
improvements under current County
standards for construction of County
roads and bridges.
(c) That the County will arrange
for the supervision and administration of the construction project.
Section 3. Funding
(a) That the City agrees to participate with the County in the cost of the
Improvement by an allocation from
the County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Fund to pay the County portion
of the project; and by applying to the
County to use the License Tax Funds
for the Improvement.
(b) That if funds administered by
the Ohio Public Works Commission
are used for the Improvement, the
amount of the funds shall be applied
to the County’s share of the costs specified in this ordinance.
(c) That the City agrees to assume
and contribute 100% of the cost of any
items included in the construction
contract at the request of the City,
which are determined by the County
not eligible or made necessary by the
Improvement.
Section 4. Maintenance. That upon
completion of the Improvement, the
City will keep the highway open to
traffic at all times; and
(a) Maintain the improvement in
accordance with the provisions of the
statutes relating thereto and make
ample financial provisions for the
maintenance;

The City Record
(b) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstructions in a manner satisfactory to the County and
hold the right-of-way inviolate for
public highway purposes and permit
no signs, posters, billboards, roadside
stands or other private installations
within the right-of-way limits;
(c) That the County shall continue
to maintain the structural elements of
any bridge (defined as a structure
with a span of twenty feet or greater)
located within the limits of the
Improvement under the applicable
sections of the Revised Code; and
(d) After construction of the
Improvement is complete, the City
agrees to follow and maintain postconstruction Best Management Practices as outlined in the Municipal
Storm Water Permit that is filed with
the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency.
Section 5. Traffic. That on completion of the Improvement, the City will
keep the highway open to traffic at
all times; and
(a) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices conforming to the
Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices on the Improvement in
compliance with the provisions of Section 4511.11 of the Revised Code and
other related sections of the Revised
Code;
(b) That the street or highway
within the limits of the Improvement
is designated a through highway as
provided in division (A)(6) of Section
4511.07 of the Revised Code;
(c) That, if applicable, stop signs
affecting the movement of traffic on
the street or highway within the
Improvement shall be removed, and
no stop signs shall be erected on same
except at its intersection with another through highway where traffic
does not warrant the installation of a
traffic control signal but where the
warrants for a “Four-Way Stop” as
provided in the above-mentioned Manual are met;
(d) That no rule or regulation shall
be enacted restricting the use of the
Improvement by any class of vehicle
or vehicle load permitted by the
Revised Code to use a public highway. Any existing rule or regulation
so restricting road usage is rescinded;
and
(e) The City shall regulate parking
in the following manner: Prohibit
parking under Section 4511.66 of the
Revised Code unless otherwise controlled by local ordinance or resolution.
Section 6. Right-of-Way
(a) That all existing street and
public right-of-way within the City
which is necessary for the Improvement shall be made available.
(b) That in the event any additional right-of-way is required for the
Improvement the City will arrange
for the acquisition.
Section 7. Utilities
(a) That the City will make
arrangements
with
and
obtain
arrangements from all privatelyowned public utility companies
whose lines or structures will be
affected by the Improvement, and the
companies have agreed to make any
and all necessary rearrangements in
such a manner as to be clear of any
construction called for by the plans
for the Improvement, and the companies have agreed to make necessary
rearrangements immediately after
notification by the City.

465

21
(b) That the County will participate in the costs of alterations of governmentally-owned utility facilities
which come within the provisions of
Section 8204 (Utility Reimbursement
Eligibility) of the Ohio Department of
Transportation’s Real Estate Policies
and Procedures Manual to the same
extent that it participates in the other
costs of the Improvement, provided,
however, that such participation will
not extend to any additions or betterments of existing facilities.
(c) That it is agreed that the City
shall, at its own expense, make all
rearrangements of water mains, service, lines, fire hydrants, valve boxes,
sanitary sewers, or other city-owned
utilities and/or appurtenances thereto which do not comply with the Provisions of Section 8204 (Utility Reimbursement Eligibility) of the Ohio
Department of Transportation’s Real
Estate Policies and Procedures Manual, whether inside or outside the corporate limits, as may be necessary to
conform to the Improvement.
(d) That the construction, reconstruction, and/or rearrangement of
all utilities shall be done in a manner
as not to interfere unduly with the
operations of the contractor or contractors constructing the Improvement, and all backfilling of trenches
made necessary by utility rearrangement shall be performed under the
provisions of the ODOT Construction
and Material Specifications.
Section 8. Miscellaneous
(a) That if the County is formally
requested by ordinance of this Council to include the construction of sanitary sewers, water lines, area sewers
(drainage of area surrounding the
Improvement), sidewalks, alternate
bid items, or other items in the
Improvement that are in addition to
those now existing and not provided
for elsewhere in this ordinance, the
County will do so, provided that the
construction meets with the approval
of the County and the City involved in
this Improvement; and that the City
agrees to pay, or make arrangements
for the payment of the cost of the construction. The cost of preliminary and
design engineering, and construction
supervision.
(b) For purposes of this ordinance,
the agent for the County and liaison
officer shall be the County Engineer
of Cuyahoga County, Ohio, and/or
such members of his staff as he may
designate.
(c) That, under the provisions of
Chapters 304 and 1306 of the Revised,
code, the City agrees to conduct this
transaction by electronic means and
agrees that all documents requiring
County signatures may be executed
by electronic means, and that the electronic signatures affixed by the County to the documents shall have the
same legal effect as if that signature
was manually affixed to a paper version of the document.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply to
the County for an allocation from the
County Motor Vehicle License Tax
Fund to pay the County portion of the
Improvement.
Section 10. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into agreements with the County necessary to complete the Improvement.
Section 11. That this Council
requests the County to proceed with
the Improvement.
Section 12. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit to the County three (3) certified copies of this

22
ordinance immediately on its taking
effect.
Section 13. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

Ord. No. 192-14.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
County of Cuyahoga for the resurfacing of Huron Road from Prospect
Avenue to Euclid Avenue; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
enter into any relative agreements;
and to apply for and accept an allocation of County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Funds for the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Consent. That it is
declared to be in the public interest
that the consent of the City of Cleveland is given to the County of Cuyahoga (the “County”) to construct the
following improvement under plans,
specifications,
and
estimates
approved by the County: Huron Road
from Prospect Avenue to Euclid
Avenue, County Project ID No. 1127
(the “Improvement”).
Section 2. Cooperation
(a) That the City will cooperate
with the County in the Improvement.
(b) That the County will arrange
for the preparation of construction
plans and specifications, including
necessary engineering reports for the
improvements under current County
standards for construction of County
roads and bridges.
(c) That the County will arrange
for the supervision and administration of the construction project.
Section 3. Funding
(a) That the City agrees to participate with the County in the cost of the
Improvement by an allocation from
the County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Fund to pay the County portion
of the project; and by applying to the
County to use the License Tax Funds
for the Improvement.
(b) That if funds administered by
the Ohio Public Works Commission
are used for the Improvement, the
amount of the funds shall be applied
to the County’s share of the costs specified in this ordinance.
(c) That the City agrees to assume
and contribute 100% of the cost of any
items included in the construction
contract at the request of the City,
which are determined by the County
not eligible or made necessary by the
Improvement.
Section 4. Maintenance. That upon
completion of the Improvement, the
City will keep the highway open to
traffic at all times; and
(a) Maintain the improvement in
accordance with the provisions of the
statutes relating thereto and make

The City Record
ample financial provisions for the
maintenance;
(b) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstructions in a manner satisfactory to the County and
hold the right-of-way inviolate for
public highway purposes and permit
no signs, posters, billboards, roadside
stands or other private installations
within the right-of-way limits;
(c) That the County shall continue
to maintain the structural elements of
any bridge (defined as a structure
with a span of twenty feet or greater)
located within the limits of the
Improvement under the applicable
sections of the Revised Code; and
(d) After construction of the
Improvement is complete, the City
agrees to follow and maintain postconstruction Best Management Practices as outlined in the Municipal
Storm Water Permit that is filed with
the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency.
Section 5. Traffic. That on completion of the Improvement, the City will
keep the highway open to traffic at
all times; and
(a) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices conforming to the
Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices on the Improvement in
compliance with the provisions of Section 4511.11 of the Revised Code and
other related sections of the Revised
Code;
(b) That the street or highway
within the limits of the Improvement
is designated a through highway as
provided in division (A)(6) of Section
4511.07 of the Revised Code;
(c) That, if applicable, stop signs
affecting the movement of traffic on
the street or highway within the
Improvement shall be removed, and
no stop signs shall be erected on same
except at its intersection with another through highway where traffic
does not warrant the installation of a
traffic control signal but where the
warrants for a “Four-Way Stop” as
provided in the above-mentioned Manual are met;
(d) That no rule or regulation shall
be enacted restricting the use of the
Improvement by any class of vehicle
or vehicle load permitted by the
Revised Code to use a public highway. Any existing rule or regulation
so restricting road usage is rescinded;
and
(e) The City shall regulate parking
in the following manner: Prohibit
parking under Section 4511.66 of the
Revised Code unless otherwise controlled by local ordinance or resolution.
Section 6. Right-of-Way
(a) That all existing street and
public right-of-way within the City
which is necessary for the Improvement shall be made available.
(b) That in the event any additional right-of-way is required for the
Improvement the City will arrange
for the acquisition.
Section 7. Utilities
(a) That the City will make
arrangements
with
and
obtain
arrangements from all privatelyowned public utility companies
whose lines or structures will be
affected by the Improvement, and the
companies have agreed to make any
and all necessary rearrangements in
such a manner as to be clear of any
construction called for by the plans
for the Improvement, and the companies have agreed to make necessary
rearrangements immediately after

466

April 9, 2014
notification by the City.
(b) That the County will participate in the costs of alterations of governmentally-owned utility facilities
which come within the provisions of
Section 8204 (Utility Reimbursement
Eligibility) of the Ohio Department of
Transportation’s Real Estate Policies
and Procedures Manual to the same
extent that it participates in the other
costs of the Improvement, provided,
however, that such participation will
not extend to any additions or betterments of existing facilities.
(c) That it is agreed that the City
shall, at its own expense, make all
rearrangements of water mains, service, lines, fire hydrants, valve boxes,
sanitary sewers, or other city-owned
utilities and/or appurtenances thereto which do not comply with the Provisions of Section 8204 (Utility Reimbursement Eligibility) of the Ohio
Department of Transportation’s Real
Estate Policies and Procedures Manual, whether inside or outside the corporate limits, as may be necessary to
conform to the Improvement.
(d) That the construction, reconstruction, and/or rearrangement of
all utilities shall be done in a manner
as not to interfere unduly with the
operations of the contractor or contractors constructing the Improvement, and all backfilling of trenches
made necessary by utility rearrangement shall be performed under the
provisions of the ODOT Construction
and Material Specifications.
Section 8. Miscellaneous
(a) That if the County is formally
requested by ordinance of this Council to include the construction of sanitary sewers, water lines, area sewers
(drainage of area surrounding the
Improvement), sidewalks, alternate
bid items, or other items in the
Improvement that are in addition to
those now existing and not provided
for elsewhere in this ordinance, the
County will do so, provided that the
construction meets with the approval
of the County and the City involved in
this Improvement; and that the City
agrees to pay, or make arrangements
for the payment of the cost of the construction. The cost of preliminary and
design engineering, and construction
supervision.
(b) For purposes of this ordinance,
the agent for the County and liaison
officer shall be the County Engineer
of Cuyahoga County, Ohio, and/or
such members of his staff as he may
designate.
(c) That, under the provisions of
Chapters 304 and 1306 of the Revised,
code, the City agrees to conduct this
transaction by electronic means and
agrees that all documents requiring
County signatures may be executed
by electronic means, and that the electronic signatures affixed by the County to the documents shall have the
same legal effect as if that signature
was manually affixed to a paper version of the document.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply to
the County for an allocation from the
County Motor Vehicle License Tax
Fund to pay the County portion of the
Improvement.
Section 10. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into agreements with the County necessary to complete the Improvement.
Section 11. That this Council
requests the County to proceed with
the Improvement.

April 9, 2014
Section 12. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit to the County three (3) certified copies of this
ordinance immediately on its taking
effect.
Section 13. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

Ord. No. 193-14.
By Council Members Keane, K.
Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
County of Cuyahoga for the resurfacing of Munn Road from Rocky River
Drive to Warren Road; authorizing
the Director of Capital Projects to
enter into any relative agreements;
and to apply for and accept an allocation of County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Funds for the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Consent. That it is
declared to be in the public interest
that the consent of the City of Cleveland is given to the County of Cuyahoga (the “County”) to construct the
following improvement under plans,
specifications,
and
estimates
approved by the County: resurfacing
of Munn Road from Rocky River
Drive to Warren Road, County Project ID No. 1135 (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. Cooperation
(a) That the City will cooperate
with the County in the Improvement.
(b) That the County will arrange
for the preparation of construction
plans and specifications, including
necessary engineering reports for the
improvements under current County
standards for construction of County
roads and bridges.
(c) That the County will arrange
for the supervision and administration of the construction project.
Section 3. Funding
(a) That the City agrees to participate with the County in the cost of the
Improvement by an allocation from
the County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Fund to pay the County portion
of the project; and by applying to the
County to use the License Tax Funds
for the Improvement.
(b) That if funds administered by
the Ohio Public Works Commission
are used for the Improvement, the
amount of the funds shall be applied
to the County’s share of the costs specified in this ordinance.
(c) That the City agrees to assume
and contribute 100% of the cost of any
items included in the construction
contract at the request of the City,
which are determined by the County
not eligible or made necessary by the
Improvement.
Section 4. Maintenance. That upon
completion of the Improvement, the
City will keep the highway open to
traffic at all times; and

The City Record
(a) Maintain the improvement in
accordance with the provisions of the
statutes relating thereto and make
ample financial provisions for the
maintenance;
(b) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstructions in a manner satisfactory to the County and
hold the right-of-way inviolate for
public highway purposes and permit
no signs, posters, billboards, roadside
stands or other private installations
within the right-of-way limits;
(c) That the County shall continue
to maintain the structural elements of
any bridge (defined as a structure
with a span of twenty feet or greater)
located within the limits of the
Improvement under the applicable
sections of the Revised Code; and
(d) After construction of the
Improvement is complete, the City
agrees to follow and maintain postconstruction Best Management Practices as outlined in the Municipal
Storm Water Permit that is filed with
the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency.
Section 5. Traffic. That on completion of the Improvement, the City will
keep the highway open to traffic at
all times; and
(a) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices conforming to the
Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices on the Improvement in
compliance with the provisions of Section 4511.11 of the Revised Code and
other related sections of the Revised
Code;
(b) That the street or highway
within the limits of the Improvement
is designated a through highway as
provided in division (A)(6) of Section
4511.07 of the Revised Code;
(c) That, if applicable, stop signs
affecting the movement of traffic on
the street or highway within the
Improvement shall be removed, and
no stop signs shall be erected on same
except at its intersection with another through highway where traffic
does not warrant the installation of a
traffic control signal but where the
warrants for a “Four-Way Stop” as
provided in the above-mentioned Manual are met;
(d) That no rule or regulation shall
be enacted restricting the use of the
Improvement by any class of vehicle
or vehicle load permitted by the
Revised Code to use a public highway. Any existing rule or regulation
so restricting road usage is rescinded;
and
(e) The City shall regulate parking
in the following manner: Prohibit
parking under Section 4511.66 of the
Revised Code unless otherwise controlled by local ordinance or resolution.
Section 6. Right-of-Way
(a) That all existing street and
public right-of-way within the City
which is necessary for the Improvement shall be made available.
(b) That in the event any additional right-of-way is required for the
Improvement the City will arrange
for the acquisition.
Section 7. Utilities
(a) That the City will make
arrangements
with
and
obtain
arrangements from all privatelyowned public utility companies
whose lines or structures will be
affected by the Improvement, and the
companies have agreed to make any
and all necessary rearrangements in
such a manner as to be clear of any
construction called for by the plans

467

23
for the Improvement, and the companies have agreed to make necessary
rearrangements immediately after
notification by the City.
(b) That the County will participate in the costs of alterations of governmentally-owned utility facilities
which come within the provisions of
Section 8204 (Utility Reimbursement
Eligibility) of the Ohio Department of
Transportation’s Real Estate Policies
and Procedures Manual to the same
extent that it participates in the other
costs of the Improvement, provided,
however, that such participation will
not extend to any additions or betterments of existing facilities.
(c) That it is agreed that the City
shall, at its own expense, make all
rearrangements of water mains, service, lines, fire hydrants, valve boxes,
sanitary sewers, or other city-owned
utilities and/or appurtenances thereto which do not comply with the Provisions of Section 8204 (Utility Reimbursement Eligibility) of the Ohio
Department of Transportation’s Real
Estate Policies and Procedures Manual, whether inside or outside the corporate limits, as may be necessary to
conform to the Improvement.
(d) That the construction, reconstruction, and/or rearrangement of
all utilities shall be done in a manner
as not to interfere unduly with the
operations of the contractor or contractors constructing the Improvement, and all backfilling of trenches
made necessary by utility rearrangement shall be performed under the
provisions of the ODOT Construction
and Material Specifications.
Section 8. Miscellaneous
(a) That if the County is formally
requested by ordinance of this Council to include the construction of sanitary sewers, water lines, area sewers
(drainage of area surrounding the
Improvement), sidewalks, alternate
bid items, or other items in the
Improvement that are in addition to
those now existing and not provided
for elsewhere in this ordinance, the
County will do so, provided that the
construction meets with the approval
of the County and the City involved in
this Improvement; and that the City
agrees to pay, or make arrangements
for the payment of the cost of the construction. The cost of preliminary and
design engineering, and construction
supervision.
(b) For purposes of this ordinance,
the agent for the County and liaison
officer shall be the County Engineer
of Cuyahoga County, Ohio, and/or
such members of his staff as he may
designate.
(c) That, under the provisions of
Chapters 304 and 1306 of the Revised,
code, the City agrees to conduct this
transaction by electronic means and
agrees that all documents requiring
County signatures may be executed
by electronic means, and that the electronic signatures affixed by the County to the documents shall have the
same legal effect as if that signature
was manually affixed to a paper version of the document.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply to
the County for an allocation from the
County Motor Vehicle License Tax
Fund to pay the County portion of the
Improvement.
Section 10. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into agreements with the County necessary to complete the Improvement.

24
Section 11. That this Council
requests the County to proceed with
the Improvement.
Section 12. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit to the County three (3) certified copies of this
ordinance immediately on its taking
effect.
Section 13. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

Ord. No. 194-14.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Cummins, Zone, K. Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
County of Cuyahoga for the resurfacing of West 73rd Street from Denison
Avenue to Lorain Avenue; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
enter into any relative agreements;
and to apply for and accept an allocation of County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Funds for the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Consent. That it is
declared to be in the public interest
that the consent of the City of Cleveland is given to the County of Cuyahoga (the “County”) to construct the
following improvement under plans,
specifications,
and
estimates
approved by the County: resurfacing
of West 73rd Street from Denison
Avenue to Lorain Avenue, County
Project ID No. 1133 (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. Cooperation
(a) That the City will cooperate
with the County in the Improvement.
(b) That the County will arrange
for the preparation of construction
plans and specifications, including
necessary engineering reports for the
improvements under current County
standards for construction of County
roads and bridges.
(c) That the County will arrange
for the supervision and administration of the construction project.
Section 3. Funding
(a) That the City agrees to participate with the County in the cost of the
Improvement by an allocation from
the County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Fund to pay the County portion
of the project; and by applying to the
County to use the License Tax Funds
for the Improvement.
(b) That if funds administered by
the Ohio Public Works Commission
are used for the Improvement, the
amount of the funds shall be applied
to the County’s share of the costs specified in this ordinance.
(c) That the City agrees to assume
and contribute 100% of the cost of any
items included in the construction
contract at the request of the City,
which are determined by the County
not eligible or made necessary by the
Improvement.

The City Record
Section 4. Maintenance. That upon
completion of the Improvement, the
City will keep the highway open to
traffic at all times; and
(a) Maintain the improvement in
accordance with the provisions of the
statutes relating thereto and make
ample financial provisions for the
maintenance;
(b) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstructions in a manner satisfactory to the County and
hold the right-of-way inviolate for
public highway purposes and permit
no signs, posters, billboards, roadside
stands or other private installations
within the right-of-way limits;
(c) That the County shall continue
to maintain the structural elements of
any bridge (defined as a structure
with a span of twenty feet or greater)
located within the limits of the
Improvement under the applicable
sections of the Revised Code; and
(d) After construction of the
Improvement is complete, the City
agrees to follow and maintain postconstruction Best Management Practices as outlined in the Municipal
Storm Water Permit that is filed with
the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency.
Section 5. Traffic. That on completion of the Improvement, the City will
keep the highway open to traffic at
all times; and
(a) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices conforming to the
Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices on the Improvement in
compliance with the provisions of Section 4511.11 of the Revised Code and
other related sections of the Revised
Code;
(b) That the street or highway
within the limits of the Improvement
is designated a through highway as
provided in division (A)(6) of Section
4511.07 of the Revised Code;
(c) That, if applicable, stop signs
affecting the movement of traffic on
the street or highway within the
Improvement shall be removed, and
no stop signs shall be erected on same
except at its intersection with another through highway where traffic
does not warrant the installation of a
traffic control signal but where the
warrants for a “Four-Way Stop” as
provided in the above-mentioned Manual are met;
(d) That no rule or regulation shall
be enacted restricting the use of the
Improvement by any class of vehicle
or vehicle load permitted by the
Revised Code to use a public highway. Any existing rule or regulation
so restricting road usage is rescinded;
and
(e) The City shall regulate parking
in the following manner: Prohibit
parking under Section 4511.66 of the
Revised Code unless otherwise controlled by local ordinance or resolution.
Section 6. Right-of-Way
(a) That all existing street and
public right-of-way within the City
which is necessary for the Improvement shall be made available.
(b) That in the event any additional right-of-way is required for the
Improvement the City will arrange
for the acquisition.
Section 7. Utilities
(a) That the City will make
arrangements
with
and
obtain
arrangements from all privatelyowned public utility companies
whose lines or structures will be
affected by the Improvement, and the

468

April 9, 2014
companies have agreed to make any
and all necessary rearrangements in
such a manner as to be clear of any
construction called for by the plans
for the Improvement, and the companies have agreed to make necessary
rearrangements immediately after
notification by the City.
(b) That the County will participate in the costs of alterations of governmentally-owned utility facilities
which come within the provisions of
Section 8204 (Utility Reimbursement
Eligibility) of the Ohio Department of
Transportation’s Real Estate Policies
and Procedures Manual to the same
extent that it participates in the other
costs of the Improvement, provided,
however, that such participation will
not extend to any additions or betterments of existing facilities.
(c) That it is agreed that the City
shall, at its own expense, make all
rearrangements of water mains, service, lines, fire hydrants, valve boxes,
sanitary sewers, or other city-owned
utilities and/or appurtenances thereto which do not comply with the Provisions of Section 8204 (Utility Reimbursement Eligibility) of the Ohio
Department of Transportation’s Real
Estate Policies and Procedures Manual, whether inside or outside the corporate limits, as may be necessary to
conform to the Improvement.
(d) That the construction, reconstruction, and/or rearrangement of
all utilities shall be done in a manner
as not to interfere unduly with the
operations of the contractor or contractors constructing the Improvement, and all backfilling of trenches
made necessary by utility rearrangement shall be performed under the
provisions of the ODOT Construction
and Material Specifications.
Section 8. Miscellaneous
(a) That if the County is formally
requested by ordinance of this Council to include the construction of sanitary sewers, water lines, area sewers
(drainage of area surrounding the
Improvement), sidewalks, alternate
bid items, or other items in the
Improvement that are in addition to
those now existing and not provided
for elsewhere in this ordinance, the
County will do so, provided that the
construction meets with the approval
of the County and the City involved in
this Improvement; and that the City
agrees to pay, or make arrangements
for the payment of the cost of the construction. The cost of preliminary and
design engineering, and construction
supervision.
(b) For purposes of this ordinance,
the agent for the County and liaison
officer shall be the County Engineer
of Cuyahoga County, Ohio, and/or
such members of his staff as he may
designate.
(c) That, under the provisions of
Chapters 304 and 1306 of the Revised,
code, the City agrees to conduct this
transaction by electronic means and
agrees that all documents requiring
County signatures may be executed
by electronic means, and that the electronic signatures affixed by the County to the documents shall have the
same legal effect as if that signature
was manually affixed to a paper version of the document.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply to
the County for an allocation from the
County Motor Vehicle License Tax
Fund to pay the County portion of the
Improvement.

April 9, 2014
Section 10. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into agreements with the County necessary to complete the Improvement.
Section 11. That this Council
requests the County to proceed with
the Improvement.
Section 12. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit to the County three (3) certified copies of this
ordinance immediately on its taking
effect.
Section 13. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

Ord. No. 195-14.
By Council Members Mitchell, K.
Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
County of Cuyahoga for the resurfacing of Woodhill Road from Quincy
Avenue to Kinsman Road; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
enter into any relative agreements;
and to apply for and accept an allocation of County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Funds for the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Consent. That it is
declared to be in the public interest
that the consent of the City of Cleveland is given to the County of Cuyahoga (the “County”) to construct the
following improvement under plans,
specifications,
and
estimates
approved by the County: resurfacing
of Woodhill Road from Quincy
Avenue to Kinsman Road, County
Project ID No. 1131 (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. Cooperation
(a) That the City will cooperate
with the County in the Improvement.
(b) That the County will arrange
for the preparation of construction
plans and specifications, including
necessary engineering reports for the
improvements under current County
standards for construction of County
roads and bridges.
(c) That the County will arrange
for the supervision and administration of the construction project.
Section 3. Funding
(a) That the City agrees to participate with the County in the cost of the
Improvement by an allocation from
the County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Fund to pay the County portion
of the project; and by applying to the
County to use the License Tax Funds
for the Improvement.
(b) That if funds administered by
the Ohio Public Works Commission
are used for the Improvement, the
amount of the funds shall be applied
to the County’s share of the costs specified in this ordinance.
(c) That the City agrees to assume
and contribute 100% of the cost of any
items included in the construction

The City Record
contract at the request of the City,
which are determined by the County
not eligible or made necessary by the
Improvement.
Section 4. Maintenance. That upon
completion of the Improvement, the
City will keep the highway open to
traffic at all times; and(a) Maintain
the improvement in accordance with
the provisions of the statutes relating
thereto and make ample financial
provisions for the maintenance;
(b) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstructions in a manner satisfactory to the County and
hold the right-of-way inviolate for
public highway purposes and permit
no signs, posters, billboards, roadside
stands or other private installations
within the right-of-way limits;
(c) That the County shall continue
to maintain the structural elements of
any bridge (defined as a structure
with a span of twenty feet or greater)
located within the limits of the
Improvement under the applicable
sections of the Revised Code; and
(d) After construction of the
Improvement is complete, the City
agrees to follow and maintain postconstruction Best Management Practices as outlined in the Municipal
Storm Water Permit that is filed with
the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency.
Section 5. Traffic. That on completion of the Improvement, the City will
keep the highway open to traffic at
all times; and(a) Place and maintain
all traffic control devices conforming
to the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic
Control Devices on the Improvement
in compliance with the provisions of
Section 4511.11 of the Revised Code
and other related sections of the
Revised Code;
(b) That the street or highway
within the limits of the Improvement
is designated a through highway as
provided in division (A)(6) of Section
4511.07 of the Revised Code;
(c) That, if applicable, stop signs
affecting the movement of traffic on
the street or highway within the
Improvement shall be removed, and
no stop signs shall be erected on same
except at its intersection with another through highway where traffic
does not warrant the installation of a
traffic control signal but where the
warrants for a “Four-Way Stop” as
provided in the above-mentioned Manual are met;
(d) That no rule or regulation shall
be enacted restricting the use of the
Improvement by any class of vehicle
or vehicle load permitted by the
Revised Code to use a public highway. Any existing rule or regulation
so restricting road usage is rescinded;
and
(e) The City shall regulate parking
in the following manner: Prohibit
parking under Section 4511.66 of the
Revised Code unless otherwise controlled by local ordinance or resolution.
Section 6. Right-of-Way
(a) That all existing street and
public right-of-way within the City
which is necessary for the Improvement shall be made available.
(b) That in the event any additional right-of-way is required for the
Improvement the City will arrange
for the acquisition.
Section 7. Utilities
(a) That the City will make
arrangements
with
and
obtain
arrangements from all privatelyowned public utility companies

469

25
whose lines or structures will be
affected by the Improvement, and the
companies have agreed to make any
and all necessary rearrangements in
such a manner as to be clear of any
construction called for by the plans
for the Improvement, and the companies have agreed to make necessary
rearrangements immediately after
notification by the City.
(b) That the County will participate in the costs of alterations of governmentally-owned utility facilities
which come within the provisions of
Section 8204 (Utility Reimbursement
Eligibility) of the Ohio Department of
Transportation’s Real Estate Policies
and Procedures Manual to the same
extent that it participates in the other
costs of the Improvement, provided,
however, that such participation will
not extend to any additions or betterments of existing facilities.
(c) That it is agreed that the City
shall, at its own expense, make all
rearrangements of water mains, service, lines, fire hydrants, valve boxes,
sanitary sewers, or other city-owned
utilities and/or appurtenances thereto which do not comply with the Provisions of Section 8204 (Utility Reimbursement Eligibility) of the Ohio
Department of Transportation’s Real
Estate Policies and Procedures Manual, whether inside or outside the corporate limits, as may be necessary to
conform to the Improvement.
(d) That the construction, reconstruction, and/or rearrangement of
all utilities shall be done in a manner
as not to interfere unduly with the
operations of the contractor or contractors constructing the Improvement, and all backfilling of trenches
made necessary by utility rearrangement shall be performed under the
provisions of the ODOT Construction
and Material Specifications.
Section 8. Miscellaneous
(a) That if the County is formally
requested by ordinance of this Council to include the construction of sanitary sewers, water lines, area sewers
(drainage of area surrounding the
Improvement), sidewalks, alternate
bid items, or other items in the
Improvement that are in addition to
those now existing and not provided
for elsewhere in this ordinance, the
County will do so, provided that the
construction meets with the approval
of the County and the City involved in
this Improvement; and that the City
agrees to pay, or make arrangements
for the payment of the cost of the construction. The cost of preliminary and
design engineering, and construction
supervision.
(b) For purposes of this ordinance,
the agent for the County and liaison
officer shall be the County Engineer
of Cuyahoga County, Ohio, and/or
such members of his staff as he may
designate.
(c) That, under the provisions of
Chapters 304 and 1306 of the Revised,
code, the City agrees to conduct this
transaction by electronic means and
agrees that all documents requiring
County signatures may be executed
by electronic means, and that the electronic signatures affixed by the County to the documents shall have the
same legal effect as if that signature
was manually affixed to a paper version of the document.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply to
the County for an allocation from the
County Motor Vehicle License Tax
Fund to pay the County portion of the
Improvement.

26
Section 10. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into agreements with the County necessary to complete the Improvement.
Section 11. That this Council
requests the County to proceed with
the Improvement.
Section 12. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit to the County three (3) certified copies of this
ordinance immediately on its taking
effect.Section 13. That this ordinance
is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

Ord. No. 198-14.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Bachman Court, S.W.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
839-13, adopted August 14, 2013, this
Council declared its intention to
vacate a portion of Bachman Court,
S.W.; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on
the abutting property owners affected by the resolution which stated a
time and place when objections
would be heard before the Board of
Revision of Assessments; and
Whereas, on January 14, 2014, the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of the above and that
it will not be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be
made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and being part of Old Brooklyn Township, Lot Number 53, further described
as follows:
Beginning at a point in the westerly line of West 36th Street (25.00 feet
wide) formerly Bailey Court, 86.25
feet south of the southerly line of Bailey Avenue S.W.(50.00 feet wide) formerly Bailey Street;
Thence westerly parallel with the
southerly line of said Bailey Avenue
S.W., 163 feet to the easterly line of
Averell and Bradford Subdivision
recorded in Volume 4, Page 9 of Cuyahoga County map records;
Thence south 16.25 feet along said
easterly line of Averell and Bradford
Subdivision;
Thence easterly parallel to the said
southerly line of Bailey Avenue S.W.
90 feet;
Thence northerly 7.25 feet;

The City Record
Thence easterly parallel with
southerly line of said Bailey Avenue
S.W. and distant 9 feet southerly from
first described coarse, 73 feet to the
westerly line of said West 36th Street;
Thence northerly along the westerly line of said West 36th Street 9 feet
to the place of beginning.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved to
the City of Cleveland an easement of
full width as described above for
AT&T, the Illuminating Company
(CEI), and an ingress/egress easement for the three (3) abutting properties, bearing parcel numbers 007-07040, 007-07-041, and 007-07-042.
That no structures shall be erected
on the premises described in this easement except those constructed under
the approval of, and in compliance
with, plans approved by AT&T, the
Illuminating Company (CEI), and the
City of Cleveland.
Section
3.
That
provided
all
required
approvals
have
been
obtained, the Manager of Engineering and Construction is directed to
record the vacation plat in the office
of the Recorder of Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit a copy of this
ordinance to the Fiscal Officer of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

Ord. No. 199-14.
By Council Members Cummins, K.
Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of the 1st Un-named Alley
North of Denison Avenue and West of
West 48th Street.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
841-13, adopted August 14, 2013, this
Council declared its intention to
vacate a portion of the 1st Un-named
Alley North of Denison Avenue and
West of West 48th Street; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on
the abutting property owners affected by the resolution which stated a
time and place when objections
would be heard before the Board of
Revision of Assessments; and
Whereas, on January 14, 2014, the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of the above and that
it will not be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be
made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

470

April 9, 2014
1.
That
this
Council
Section
declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and being part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 46 as shown in the
George P. Geib’s Allotment, recorded
in Volume 30, Page 27 of Cuyahoga
County
Map
Records,
further
described as follows:
Being all that portion of the 1st unnamed alley (10.00 feet wide) north of
Denison Avenue S.W. (50.00 feet
wide) and west of West 48th Street
(50.00 feet wide) extending from the
west right of way of said West 48th
Street westerly 50.00 feet to its terminus.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved to
the City of Cleveland an easement of
full width as described above for the
Illuminating Company (CEI), and an
ingress/egress easement for the three
(3) abutting properties bearing parcel numbers 016-22-024, 016-22-082, and
016-22-025.
That no structures shall be erected
on the premises described in this easement except those constructed under
the approval of, and in compliance
with, plans approved by the Illuminating Company (CEI), and the City
of Cleveland.
3.
That
provided
all
Section
required
approvals
have
been
obtained, the Manager of Engineering and Construction is directed to
record the vacation plat in the office
of the Recorder of Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit a copy of this
ordinance to the Fiscal Officer of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

Ord. No. 201-14.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of West 28th Street.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
371-13, adopted May 20, 2013, this
Council declared its intention to
vacate a portion of West 28th Street;
and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on
the abutting property owners affected by the resolution which stated a
time and place when objections
would be heard before the Board of
Revision of Assessments; and
Whereas, on January 14, 2014, the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of the above and that
it will not be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be
made; and

April 9, 2014
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and being part of Old Brooklyn Township, Lot Number 61 in the Oak Park
Heights Subdivision as shown in volume 80 of maps, page 4 of Cuyahoga
County Records, further described as
follows:
Being all that portion of West 28th
Street (50.00 feet wide) and its
turnouts extending 120.00 feet north
along its center line from the north
right of way of Ralph Avenue S.W.
(50.00 feet wide).
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved to
the City of Cleveland an easement of
full width as described above for
AT&T and the Illuminating Company
(CEI).
That no structures shall be erected
on the premises described in this easement except those constructed under
the approval of, and in compliance
with, plans approved by AT&T, the
Illuminating Company (CEI), and the
City of Cleveland.
Section
3.
That
provided
all
required
approvals
have
been
obtained, the Manager of Engineering and Construction is directed to
record the vacation plat in the office
of the Recorder of Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit a copy of this
ordinance to the Fiscal Officer of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

Ord. No. 272-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of constructing all necessary infrastructure needed for the
rehabilitation of the Burke Lakefront
Airport shoreline; authorizing the
Director of Port Control to enter into
one or more public improvement contracts for the making of the improvement; authorizing the Director to
employ one or more professional consultants to design the improvement;
and to enter into various written
requirement contracts needed in connection with the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of constructing
all necessary infrastructure needed
for the rehabilitation of the Burke
Lakefront Airport shoreline (the
“Improvement”), for the Department
of Port Control, by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the
Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into one
or more contracts for the making of
the public improvement with the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the Improvement, provided, however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the
Improvement may be treated as a separate Improvement, and each, or any
combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate
contract on a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to apply and pay
for permits, licenses, or other authorizations required by any regulatory
agency or public authority to permit
performance of the work authorized
by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to design
the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Port Control from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Port Control for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 5. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to make one or
more written standard purchase contracts and written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the period of requirements to be
determined by the director, for the
necessary items of materials, equipment, supplies, and services necessary to construct the Improvement,
including labor and materials if necessary, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Department of
Port Control. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines.
Section 6. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery

471

27
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 7. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Port Control may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 8. That the cost of the contracts and other expenditures authorized shall be paid from Fund Nos. 60
SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60 SF 106, 60 SF 112,
60 SF 114, 60 SF 115, 60 SF 116, 60 SF
117, 60 SF 119, 60 SF 121, 60 SF 122, 60
SF 126, 60 SF 128, 60 SF 130, 60 SF 141,
60 SF 160, and from the fund or funds
to which are credited any grant proceeds accepted for this purpose or federal PFCs, if authorized for this purpose, Request No. RQS 3001, RL 2014-9.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

Ord. No. 361-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to employ
one or more professional consultants
to review various City policies,
processes, and services, to make comprehensive analytical reviews, and
recommend improvements.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional
services
necessary
to
review and audit various City policies, processes, and services, to make
comprehensive analytical reviews,
and recommend improvements. The
comprehensive analytical reviews
are necessary to improve efficiency in
the delivery of City of Cleveland services while protecting the City’s
financial integrity.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Finance from a list of
qualified consultants available for
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Finance for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
and approved and certified by the

The City Record

28
Director of Finance. The contract or
contracts entered into under this ordinance shall be executed no later than
December 31, 2014.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from the fund or funds designat-

ed by the Director of Finance for this
purpose.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take

April 9, 2014
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

Ord. No. 385-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance establishing salary and wage schedules for various classifications, and repealing existing Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as amended by various ordinances.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this ordinance shall be known as the “General Salary Ordinance.” Further, that except as otherwise provided, the schedule of compensation set forth in Sections 2 through 59 inclusive, shall be effective as
of April 1, 2013.
Section 2. Secretary to the Mayor, Directors of Departments, Planning Director, Executive Director Community
Relations Board, Executive Assistants to the Mayor.
(a) That the salary of the Secretary to the Mayor shall be fixed by the Mayor at not less than $50,795.78 and
not more than $183,340.00 per annum.
(b) That the salary of the Directors of Law, Finance, Economic Development, Public Safety, Public Works, Public Health, Human Resources, Community Development, Building and Housing, Aging, the Planning Director, the
Executive Director of the Community Relations Board, and Executive Assistants to the Mayor shall be fixed by
the Mayor at not less than $50,795.81 and not more than $182,067.01 per annum.
(c) That the salary of the Directors of Port Control and Public Utilities shall be fixed by the Mayor at not
less than $100,000.00 and not more than $236,515.54 per annum.
Section 3. Clerk of Council.
That the salary of the Clerk of Council shall be fixed at not less than $42,865.60 and not more than $106,865.05
per annum.
Section 4. Employees of Council – Salary
That the Clerk of Council, with the approval of the President of Council, shall fix the salary of the employees
of Council within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.

Administrative Assistant..........................................................
Administrative Secretary..........................................................
Assistant Legislative Clerk ....................................................
Chief City Archivist...................................................................
Chief Legislative Secretary ....................................................
Council Receptionist ..................................................................
Deputy City Archivist ...............................................................
Deputy Clerk ................................................................................
Director of Communications ...................................................
Director of Policy Research ...................................................
Executive Assistant – Administration ................................
Executive Assistant – Councilmembers .............................
Executive Assistant to the Clerk of Council ..................
Financial Assistant ....................................................................
Financial Manager .....................................................................
Financial Officer .........................................................................
First Assistant Clerk.................................................................
Information and Technology Administrator.....................
Information Systems Engineer ..............................................
Legislative Assistant .................................................................
Legislative Committee Clerk ..................................................
Legislative Secretary .................................................................
Personnel and Human Resources Assistant.....................
Personnel and Human Resources manager......................
Planning and Development Advisor....................................
Policy Research Analyst..........................................................
Public Relations Manager .......................................................
Sergeant-at-Arms..........................................................................
Special Council.............................................................................

Minimum
$21,851.06
20,800.00
20,800.00
21,851.06
21,851.06
20,800.00
20,800.00
21,851.06
24,974.46
24,974.46
24,974.46
20,800.00
24,974.46
20,800.00
21,851.06
20,800.00
24,975.91
21,851.06
24,974.46
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
21,851.06
55,000.00
21,851.06
21,851.06
20,800.00
41,416.04

Maximum
$73,469.32
73,469.32
57,579.14
77,490.61
77,490.61
46,494.36
73,469.32
73,469.32
77,490.61
77,490.61
77,490.61
45,000.00
77,490.61
46,494.36
77,490.61
73,469.32
77,490.61
73,469.32
77,490.61
61,992.49
61,992.49
61,992.49
73,469.32
77,490.61
77,233.52
73,469.32
77,490.61
42,627.33
82,750.20

Section 5. Assistants to the Mayor, Secretaries to Directors of Departments, Secretary of the Civil Service Commission, Secretary to Director of Department of Port Control, and Assistant Directors
That the salary of the Special Assistants to the Mayor, Secretaries to Directors of Departments, Secretary of
the Civil Service Commission, Secretary to Director of Department of Port Control, and Assistant Directors shall
be fixed by the Mayor under the following schedule:

472

April 9, 2014
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

The City Record

Special Assistant to the Mayor .............................................
Secretary to Directors of Departments ..............................
Secretary of the Civil Service Commission ......................
Secretary to Director of Department of Port Control ..
Assistant Directors .....................................................................

29
Minimum
$20,800.00
36,590.39
25,011.85
41,312.22
36,590.39

Maximum
$112,639.75
146,639.64
102,338.45
152,120.83
146,639.64

Section 6. Department of Law
That the Director of Law shall fix the salary of each member of his staff of lawyers in accordance with the
following schedule:
CIVIL BRANCH
Assistant Director of Law I ...................................................
Assistant Director of Law I(s) .............................................
Assistant Director of Law II .................................................
Assistant Director of Law II(s) ...........................................
Chief Assistant Director of Law ..........................................
Chief Corporate Counsel ..........................................................
Chief Counsel ...............................................................................
Chief Trial Counsel....................................................................
Deputy Law Director.................................................................

Minimum
$26,250.00
26,250.00
31,500.00
31,500.00
31,500.00
36,750.00
36,750.00
36,750.00
36,750.00

Maximum
$82,780.43
88,693.33
100,519.11
111,890.21
130,083.54
143,195.23
143,195.23
143,195.23
143,195.23

CRIMINAL BRANCH
1.
Chief Assistant Prosecutor......................................................
2.
First Assistant Prosecutor ......................................................
3.
Assistant Prosecutor ..................................................................

36,750.00
31,500.00
23,100.00

143,195.23
130,083.54
100,519.11

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9

Section 7. Service Employees International Union, Local 1199, AFL-CIO. That salaries and compensation in the
following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing
after each classification:

1.
2.
3.

Bridge Oilier .................................................................................
Custodial Worker ........................................................................
Window Washer ..........................................................................

Minimum
$10.00
10.00
12.54

Maximum
$18.93
15.42
21.31

Section 8. International Local 100, AFSCME Ohio Council 8 AFL-CIO. That salaries in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.

Accountant I .................................................................................
Accountant II ...............................................................................
Accountant III..............................................................................
Accountant Clerk I.....................................................................
Accountant Clerk II...................................................................
Activities Therapist ...................................................................
Airport Information Representative ....................................
Airport Operations Agent I.....................................................
Airport Operations Agent II...................................................
Airport Safety Man ....................................................................
Architect .........................................................................................
Associate Engineer.....................................................................
Assistant Plan Examiner.........................................................
Assistant Residential Plan Examiner ................................
Associate Programmer ..............................................................
Bill Collector.................................................................................
Billing Clerk .................................................................................
Building Inspector ......................................................................
Building Inspector I ..................................................................
Building Inspector II ................................................................
Building Inspector III...............................................................
Building Inspector IV ...............................................................
Caseworker I ................................................................................
Caseworker II ..............................................................................
Cashier/Starter .............................................................................
Chemist ...........................................................................................
Chief Miscellaneous Investigator..........................................
Citizens Information Representative...................................
Claims Examiner.........................................................................
Clinical Laboratory Assistant ................................................
Clinical Laboratory Technician I .........................................
Clinical Laboratory Technician II .......................................
Community Development Planner ........................................
Community Health Aide...........................................................
Community Relations Representative I .............................

473

Minimum
$14.39
14.88
15.48
10.00
10.00
10.00
12.14
17.13
21.52
17.19
10.00
17.83
16.29
13.42
10.00
12.14
10.00
14.26
14.08
14.89
15.70
26.35
13.33
14.03
10.00
18.49
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
16.86
10.00
10.00
10.00

Maximum
$20.20
22.17
24.58
16.38
17.69
15.56
16.97
20.98
24.70
22.97
30.55
28.57
23.32
23.32
23.74
16.97
16.96
22.54
24.60
25.99
27.39
28.81
18.43
20.20
20.21
26.85
23.32
19.29
23.32
19.29
22.17
23.74
29.40
16.37
19.29

30
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.

The City Record
Community Relations Representative II ...........................
Community Relations Representative III..........................
Computer Monitor Assistant ...................................................
Computer Operator......................................................................
Construction Technician...........................................................
Consumer Protection Specialist .............................................
Contract and Monitoring Specialist .....................................
Cook .................................................................................................
Copy Center Operator................................................................
Customer Service Representative .........................................
Data Control Clerk.....................................................................
Data Conversion Operator .......................................................
Development Officer ..................................................................
Drug and Alcohol Counselor ..................................................
Elevator Inspector ......................................................................
Engineer .........................................................................................
Environmental Compliance Specialist I .............................
Environmental Compliance Specialist II ...........................
Environmental Compliance Specialist III .........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist I...........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist II.........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist III .......................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist I ..............................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist II ............................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist III...........................
Financial Analyst .......................................................................
Financial Counselor ...................................................................
First Press Operator ..................................................................
General Storekeeper ...................................................................
Geriatric Outreach Worker .....................................................
Hazardous Material Specialist ...............................................
Head Cook .....................................................................................
Head Storekeeper ........................................................................
Help Desk Analyst.....................................................................
Home Maintenance Aide ..........................................................
House Connection Inspector ...................................................
Residential Building Inspector..............................................
Income Tax Tracer ....................................................................
Information Control Analyst ..................................................
Inspector of Weight and Measures .....................................
Instrumentation Technician I ................................................
Instrumentation Technician II ..............................................
Instrument Repairman ..............................................................
Intake Specialist .........................................................................
Interim Building Inspector .....................................................
Interim Mechanical Inspector ................................................
Interim Residential Building Inspector .............................
Interim Residential Plan Examiner ....................................
Junior Cashier..............................................................................
Junior Clerk ..................................................................................
Lab Coordinator...........................................................................
Laboratory Assistant .................................................................
Landscape Designer ...................................................................
Life Guard .....................................................................................
Life Guard Captain ....................................................................
Mechanical Inspector I .............................................................
Mechanical Inspector II ...........................................................
Mechanical Inspector III..........................................................
Mechanical Inspector IV ........................................................
Medical Billing Reimbursement Specialist .......................
Medical Coder and Billing Analyst .....................................
Messenger.......................................................................................
Meter Reader ................................................................................
Miscellaneous Investigator ......................................................
Monitoring, Auditing and Evaluation Coordinator ........
Network Analyst I......................................................................
On The Job Training Specialist ...........................................
Parking Attendant......................................................................
Parking Meter Collector...........................................................
Parking Meter Serviceman......................................................
Permit Processing Specialist ..................................................
Pharmacist .....................................................................................
Photographer ................................................................................
Photographic Laboratory Technician..................................
Physical Director I.....................................................................
Physical Director II...................................................................
Residential Plan Examiner.....................................................

474

April 9, 2014
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
12.02
10.00
10.00
13.77
10.00
12.15
10.00
12.02
10.00
10.00
14.23
22.78
14.95
16.35
17.90
14.95
16.35
17.90
13.33
14.18
15.74
10.00
10.00
12.00
19.25
10.00
21.63
10.00
17.85
12.02
10.00
15.39
17.69
12.60
10.00
12.89
20.44
22.81
10.00
10.00
19.00
19.00
15.75
20.25
11.14
11.97
16.82
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
14.08
14.89
15.70
27.39
10.42
10.17
10.00
15.53
15.35
13.65
14.52
12.71
10.00
10.00
16.49
10.00
10.74
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
19.56

23.32
28.86
14.02
23.32
23.32
18.43
24.67
15.94
18.74
17.67
16.98
15.39
27.38
15.02
24.60
34.79
23.23
24.33
31.30
24.18
25.34
26.57
23.98
25.10
26.30
22.17
23.32
22.25
24.97
22.17
32.65
17.65
23.06
25.33
16.37
18.88
20.33
17.86
21.15
17.90
21.70
23.92
21.37
16.38
20.36
20.36
16.88
21.70
16.97
14.14
26.88
19.29
28.86
16.16
20.01
24.60
25.99
27.39
28.81
22.06
22.73
15.24
19.27
18.62
22.51
35.28
21.74
16.38
16.35
17.19
13.72
32.25
22.17
19.29
19.93
21.51
26.36

April 9, 2014
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135.
136.
137.
138.
139.
140.
141.
142.
143.
144.
145.
146.
147.
148.
149.
150.
151.
152.
153.
154.
155.
156.
157.
158.
159.
160.
161.
162.
163.
164.
165.
166.
167.
168.
169.
170.
171.
172.
173.
174.
175.
176
177.
178.
179.
180.
181.
182.
183.
184.
185.
186.

The City Record

Play Director ................................................................................
Pressman ........................................................................................
Preventive Health Counselor..................................................
Preventive Health Educator ...................................................
Principal Cashier ........................................................................
Principal Clerk ............................................................................
Print Shop Helper.......................................................................
Private Secretary ........................................................................
Program Analyst .........................................................................
Programmer...................................................................................
Programmer Analyst..................................................................
Property Clerk .............................................................................
Psychiatric Social Worker.......................................................
Public Health Nursing Aide ...................................................
Public Health Sanitarian I .....................................................
Public Health Sanitarian II....................................................
Public Health Sanitarian III..................................................
Public Health Sanitarian IV ..................................................
Public Information Officer ......................................................
Quality Assurance Analyst .....................................................
Quality Control Coordinator ...................................................
Radio Dispatcher.........................................................................
Radio Technician ........................................................................
Receptionist...................................................................................
Recreation Aide ...........................................................................
Recreation Instructor ................................................................
Recreation Instructor I.............................................................
Recreation Instructor II ...........................................................
Recreation Instructor III .........................................................
Redevelopment Advisor ............................................................
Redevelopment Coordinator ....................................................
Registered Animal Health Technician ...............................
Rehabilitation Inspector ...........................................................
Second Press Operator ..............................................................
Secretary.........................................................................................
Secretary to Director of Consumer Affairs ......................
Senior Assistant City Planner ...............................................
Senior Assistant Designer .......................................................
Senior Assistant Mechanical Engineer...............................
Senior Cashier ..............................................................................
Senior Chemist .............................................................................
Senior Clerk ..................................................................................
Senior Computer Operator .......................................................
Senior Contract and Monitoring Specialist .......................
Senior Data Conversion Operator .........................................
Senior Development Officer ....................................................
Senior Draftsman ........................................................................
Senior Laboratory Technician................................................
Senior Landscape Architect ....................................................
Sewer Service Man .....................................................................
Site Inspector................................................................................
Social Worker for Homeless ..................................................
Starter (Golf) ...............................................................................
Stenographer III ........................................................................
Stock Clerk....................................................................................
Storekeeper ....................................................................................
Surveyor..........................................................................................
Tax Auditor I...............................................................................
Tax Auditor II .............................................................................
Technical Specialist ...................................................................
Technical Specifications Writer ............................................
Telecommunications Analyst I ..............................................
Telephone Operator ....................................................................
Telephone Supervisor ................................................................
Traffic Sign and Marking Technician ...............................
Trainee Building Inspector .....................................................
Trainee Residential Plan Examiner ...................................
Typist ..............................................................................................
Water Hydraulic Repairman ..................................................
Water Meter Repairman ..........................................................
Water Pipe Repairman .............................................................
Water Serviceman.......................................................................
Water System Construction Inspector ................................
Web Content Editor ...................................................................

31
10.00
10.00
13.59
10.00
14.66
14.88
12.85
10.00
16.64
10.00
10.00
11.37
12.48
10.63
15.48
17.38
15.49
18.77
10.00
10.00
16.82
17.33
19.85
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
17.69
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
12.57
17.61
12.47
10.00
11.34
13.47
12.63
11.69
10.86
10.00
18.16
10.00
13.82
10.00
10.00
13.11
16.66
10.00
14.39
15.48
10.00
10.00
14.53
10.00
10.00
16.57
18.60
18.25
12.02
18.16
16.18
16.44
10.00
18.97
10.00

13.98
21.75
22.55
15.15
23.74
20.10
14.96
21.21
30.74
27.39
30.74
34.03
22.10
14.12
21.89
23.60
24.77
30.44
23.32
27.38
26.89
20.99
20.99
15.61
11.26
16.38
17.45
18.11
19.16
24.59
27.39
16.38
27.37
19.90
17.69
28.86
24.59
24.59
24.59
20.20
23.32
16.58
27.39
29.03
18.44
35.93
19.82
18.04
30.54
19.27
23.32
22.94
13.55
18.43
18.23
20.76
27.39
18.75
20.73
23.32
24.60
42.45
16.97
17.69
17.69
20.33
21.13
15.39
19.27
19.27
20.67
16.46
24.08
29.77

Section 9. Teamsters Local 507. That salaries in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

475

32

The City Record

1.
2.

Correctional Officer....................................................................
Guard ...............................................................................................

April 9, 2014
Minimum
$12.18
10.00

Maximum
$18.39
17.39

Section 10. Cleveland Police Patrolmen’s Association (C.P.P.A.) Civilian Personnel. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule
appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Bilingual Communication Specialist ....................................
Police Radio Dispatcher...........................................................
Police Safety Aide ......................................................................
Safety Telephone Operator......................................................

Minimum
$22,882.82
22,885.90
20,800.00
21,266.04

Maximum
$38,854.66
42,544.60
30,287.99
33,480.03

Section 11. International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 10. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after
each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.

Assistant Superintendent of Sewer Maintenance ...........
Chief Radio Dispatcher-Water ...............................................
Data Conversion Supervisor....................................................
Engineer of Hydraulic Surveys ............................................
Meter Reader Supervisor..........................................................
Sewer Construction & Maintenance Operations
Supervisor ..................................................................................
Sewer Maintenance Unit Leader ...........................................
Sewer Maintenance Unit Leader Operator ........................
Supervisor of Radio Service ...................................................
Unit Supervisor ............................................................................
Water Hydraulic Unit Leader................................................
Water Hydraulic Supervisor ...................................................
Water Meter Department Unit Leader ...............................
Water Meter Department Supervisor...................................
Water Pipe Repair Unit Leader ...........................................
Water Pipe Repair Supervisor...............................................

Minimum
$14.77
15.12
11.92
18.59
14.47

Maximum
$25.78
23.34
20.47
29.11
23.03

15.67
14.09
14.09
15.13
13.29
14.09
15.96
14.09
15.96
14.09
15.97

25.45
22.06
23.18
24.86
23.06
22.11
24.93
22.11
24.93
22.49
25.85

Section 12. Municipal Construction Equipment Construction Operators Labor Council (Water Plant Operators, Stationary Engineers, Boiler Room Operators). That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall
be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Building Stationary Engineer ................................................
Chief Building Stationary Engineer....................................
Chief Stationary Engineer ......................................................
Stationary Boiler Room Operator .........................................
Water Plant Operator I............................................................
Water Plant Operator II ..........................................................

Minimum
$18.52
19.80
21.04
19.21
20.28
21.72

Maximum
$19.33
20.64
21.91
20.04
21.14
22.62

Section 13. International Union of Painters and Allied Trades, District Council 6. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule
appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Sign Painter ..................................................................................
Sign Painter Unit Leader ........................................................
Traffic Sign and Marking Supervisor ................................
Traffic Sign Process Operator ...............................................

Minimum
$23.23
24.23
13.28
13.28

Maximum
$33.26
35.82
26.06
26.10

Section 14. Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association. (Security Officers). That salaries and compensation in the
following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing
after each classification:

1.

Security Officer............................................................................

Minimum
$10.80

Maximum
$20.90

Section 15. Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association (Chief Dispatcher). That the salaries and the compensation
in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.

Chief Radio Dispatcher ............................................................

Minimum
$39,788.00

Maximum
$48,846.62

Section 16. City, County and Waste Paper Drivers Union, Local No. 244, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

476

The City Record

April 9, 2014
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

Airport Maintenance Man ........................................................
Animal Control Officer .............................................................
Concrete Mixer Driver ..............................................................
Ground Maintenance Truck Driver II ................................
Hostler.............................................................................................
Parking Enforcement Officer.................................................
Section Supervisor (part-time/seasonal) ............................
Snow Removal Vehicle Operator (part-time/seasonal)
Street Carry-all Driver ..............................................................
Street Maintenance Equipment Leader ..............................
Street Equipment Maintenance Specialist .........................
Tanker Truck Driver ................................................................
Traffic Controller........................................................................
Truck Driver.................................................................................
Waste Collection Driver ...........................................................

33
Minimum
$11.97
11.04
14.82
12.34
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.40
15.55
16.15
15.55
15.55
10.00
12.50
12.33

Maximum
$18.90
17.47
23.45
19.53
15.50
15.40
11.26
16.93
24.60
25.55
24.60
24.60
15.40
19.79
19.51

Section 17. International Association of Machinists District Council 54, Local 439. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule
appearing after each classification:

1.
2.

Machinist ........................................................................................
Machinist Helper .........................................................................

Minimum
$15.83
$13.72

Maximum
$23.99
20.11

Section 18. S.E.M.E., Local 1. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by
the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Auto Body Repair Unit Leader .............................................
Automobile Repair Worker .....................................................
Automobile Repairman Unit Leader....................................
Heavy Duty Auto Body Repair Worker ............................
Heavy Duty Mechanic...............................................................
Heavy Duty Unit Leader .........................................................
Small Equipment Repair Worker .........................................
Tire Repair Worker...................................................................
Welder .............................................................................................
Welder/Fabricator ......................................................................

Minimum
$12.88
12.60
17.78
15.73
15.75
23.85
12.26
14.08
18.36
18.36

Maximum
$25.70
21.18
25.70
22.42
25.37
31.47
20.01
19.56
24.98
25.36

Section 19. Longshoreman Association, Local 1317. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.

Electric Bridge Operator..........................................................
Electric Bridge Operator Leader ..........................................

Minimum
$10.00
10.00

Maximum
$17.89
19.16

Section 20. International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 38. That salaries and compensation in the
following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing
after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Electrical
Electrical
Electrical
Electrical

Inspector
Inspector
Inspector
Inspector

1................................................................
2................................................................
3................................................................
4................................................................

Minimum
$14.83
15.66
16.49
26.88

Maximum
$25.34
26.77
28.22
29.68

Section 21. Plumbers Local 55 (Plumbers Inspectors). That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Plumbing
Plumbing
Plumbing
Plumbing

Inspector
Inspector
Inspector
Inspector

1 ................................................................
2 ................................................................
3 ................................................................
4 ................................................................

Minimum
$14.83
15.66
16.49
26.88

Maximum
$25.34
26.77
28.22
29.68

Section 22. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Emergency
Emergency
Emergency
Emergency

Medical
Medical
Medical
Medical

Dispatcher .............................................
Dispatcher Trainee............................
Technician ............................................
Technician Trainee ...........................

477

Minimum
$24,765.24
10.50
26,336.35
10.50

Maximum
$42,553.33
10.50
46,419.68
10.50

34

The City Record

5.
6.
7.

Paramedic I...................................................................................
Paramedic II .................................................................................
Paramedic III ...............................................................................

April 9, 2014
27,741.02
29,239.09
33,570.30

48,173.00
48,611.32
50,175.50

Section 23. Communication Workers of America, Local 4340 (CWA). That the salaries and compensation in the
following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing
after each classification:

1.

Emergency Medical Technician Supervisor ......................

Minimum
$20,092.80

Maximum
$61,147.43

Section 24. Ohio Nurses Association, Local 85. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications
shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.

Public Health Nurse I...............................................................
Public Health Nurse II.............................................................
Public Health Nurse III ...........................................................

Minimum
$23,146.64
35,887.06
39,098.75

Maximum
$48,488.02
50,204.08
55,128.81

Section 25. International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO, Local 39. That the salaries and the compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.

Apprentice Cable Splicer..........................................................
Apprentice Lineman ...................................................................
Cable Foreman.............................................................................
Cable Splicer Helper..................................................................
Dispatcher Electric System Operator ..................................
Electric Meter Industrial Installer ......................................
Electric Meter Instrument Specialist and
General Tester .........................................................................
Electric Meter Service Foremen............................................
Electric Meter Service Installer I ........................................
Electric Meter Service Installer II ......................................
Electric Meterman Apprentice ...............................................
Electric Transmission and Distribution Inspector.........
Foreman Low Tension ..............................................................
Gas Turbine Mechanic ..............................................................
Gas Turbine Mechanic Apprentice .......................................
Intern Apprentice........................................................................
Junior Electric Switchboard Operator ................................
Line Clearance Man ...................................................................
Line Foreman ...............................................................................
Line Helper Driver.....................................................................
Line Switchman ...........................................................................
Leader Lineman Low-Tension ................................................
Lineman ..........................................................................................
Lineman Leader...........................................................................
Low Tension Lineman ..............................................................
Low Tension Lineman Apprentice .......................................
Low Tension Trouble Lineman .............................................
Police Division Trouble Lineman.........................................
Senior Cable Splicer...................................................................
Senior Lineman ............................................................................
Telecommunications Technician ...........................................
Traffic Signal Control Technician .......................................
Traffic Signal Control Technician 2 ...................................
Transformer Repairman Foreman........................................
Trouble Lineman.........................................................................
Underground Conduit Foreman .............................................

Minimum
$23.80
23.99
33.70
24.42
29.22
30.06

Maximum
$25.64
25.83
34.25
24.97
29.77
30.60

30.40
33.70
28.00
26.09
23.47
31.78
33.11
17.90
23.80
10.00
23.96
24.93
33.70
18.99
33.12
32.14
30.17
32.32
28.15
23.53
31.50
19.77
31.78
31.78
31.50
33.34
32.80
33.70
32.85
33.70

30.94
34.25
29.09
26.64
25.26
32.81
33.67
29.08
25.64
32.32
24.50
25.47
34.25
24.97
33.67
32.68
30.71
32.87
28.70
24.93
32.04
31.48
32.32
32.32
32.04
33.89
33.34
34.25
33.39
34.25

Section 26. Municipal Foremen and Laborer’s Union (Chartered: Municipal, County & State Employees’ Union
Local 1099, AFL-CIO)(Non-Supervisory). That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be
fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Accident and Safety Inspector...............................................
Arborist I .......................................................................................
Cemeteries Maintenance Man I .............................................
Cemeteries Maintenance Man II ...........................................
Cold Patch and Crack Sealing Worker .............................
Engineering and Construction Inspector...........................
Gardener .........................................................................................
Ground Maintenance Man ........................................................
Laborer I ........................................................................................
Mechanical Handyman ..............................................................

478

Minimum
$20.36
17.80
15.95
24.66
17.49
19.05
17.80
15.95
15.95
16.62

Maximum
$22.36
19.80
17.95
26.66
19.49
21.05
19.80
17.95
17.95
18.62

April 9, 2014
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.

The City Record

Municipal Service Laborer.......................................................
Practical Nurse ............................................................................
Radio Operator.............................................................................
Real Estate Maintenance Man ..............................................
Sidewalk Inspector .....................................................................
Street Permit Supervisor ..........................................................
Street Sweeper - Waste Collection .......................................
Transfer Station Attendant .....................................................
Waste Collector ...........................................................................

35
15.95
17.98
18.25
16.86
17.44
15.91
15.52
21.32
15.95

17.95
19.98
20.25
18.86
19.44
17.91
17.52
23.32
17.95

Section 27. Municipal Foremen and Laborer’s Union (Chartered: Municipal, County & State Employees’ Union
Local 1099, AFL-CIO)(Supervisory) That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed
by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.

Airport Field Foreman .............................................................
Arborist II .....................................................................................
Assistant Manager of Parks and Urban Forestry.........
Assistant Superintendent of Waste Collection ................
Cemetery Foreman .....................................................................
Cemetery Supervisor ..................................................................
Chief Engineering and Construction Inspector ..............
Cold Patch and Crack Sealing Foreman...........................
Custodial Worker Supervisor .................................................
General Construction Foreman ..............................................
General Shop Foreman .............................................................
Greenskeeper ................................................................................
Ground Maintenance Crew Foreman ...................................
Ground Maintenance Foreman ...............................................
Horticulturist ................................................................................
Horticulturist Maintenance Foreman ..................................
Labor Foreman ............................................................................
Maintenance Foreman ...............................................................
Parking Coordinator ..................................................................
Set-Up Foreman............................................................................
Street Maintenance Foreman..................................................
Street Maintenance General Foreman.................................
Waste Collection Foreman ......................................................
Waste Collection Foreman I ..................................................

Minimum
$20.19
20.54
24.94
25.54
20.20
23.14
25.39
23.26
18.72
31.70
25.56
20.97
17.20
20.20
28.97
22.63
20.19
19.34
21.32
16.89
20.19
25.56
20.19
22.13

Maximum
$22.19
22.54
26.94
27.54
22.20
25.14
27.39
25.26
20.72
33.70
27.56
22.97
19.20
22.20
30.97
24.63
22.19
21.34
23.32
18.89
22.19
27.56
22.19
24.13

Section 28. Cleveland Scientific Examiners – Fingerprinters (FOP/OLCI). That the salaries and the compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule
appearing after each classification:

1.
2.

Fingerprint Examiner ...............................................................
Scientific Examiner....................................................................

Minimum
$22,000.00
25,000.00

Maximum
$44,564.85
61,826.86

Section 29. Association of Cleveland Fire Fighters, Local 93 (Airport Safety Supervisors). That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.

Airport Safety Supervisor ........................................................

Minimum
$38,762.61

Maximum
$58,144.74

Section 30. That the salaries and the compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
8.
9.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.

Assessments Analyst .................................................................
Budget Analyst ............................................................................
Buyer ...............................................................................................
Civil Service Examiner II .....................................................
Civil Service Examiner III .....................................................
Civil Service Examiner IV......................................................
Docket Clerk.................................................................................
Junior Personnel Assistant .....................................................
Legal Secretary............................................................................
Misdemeanor Investigator .......................................................
Office Manager ............................................................................
Paralegal ........................................................................................
Personnel Assistant....................................................................
Private Secretary to Director.................................................
Senior Personnel Assistant .....................................................

Minimum
$20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00

Maximum
$52,843.08
54,612.13
49,930.03
45,020.62
51,677.50
64,132.45
37,422.27
40,556.67
47,303.11
48,972.49
51,170.01
45,020.62
48,871.45
48,986.27
51,677.50

Section 31. That the salaries and the compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

479

36
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.

The City Record
Administrative Officer ..............................................................
Cable Protection Specialist .....................................................
Case Worker Supervisor...........................................................
Chief Caseworker Supervisor .................................................
Chief Clerk ....................................................................................
Chief Photographer ....................................................................
Chief Telephone Operator........................................................
Epidemiologist..............................................................................
Personnel Analyst I ...................................................................
Public Health Emergency Preparedness Specialist.......
Safety Programs Officer I.......................................................
Safety Programs Officer II .....................................................
Secretary to Board of Examiner of Board of Review
(Electrical) ................................................................................
Secretary - Boxing and Wrestling Commission ..............
Superintendent of Maintenance .............................................
Supervisor of Income Tax Files ...........................................

April 9, 2014
Minimum
$20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
22,426.64
22,050.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
40,000.00
21,000.00
30,160.00
25,000.00
25,000.00

Maximum
$54,579.99
38,546.08
46,595.86
47,330.66
48,986.27
52,733.77
51,551.21
85,281.07
48,685.45
54,963.23
68,226.69
47,757.77

20,800.00
30,573.46
23,606.98
20,800.00

40,983.79
37,422.27
58,952.08
40,983.79

Section 32. That the salaries and the compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.

Airport Maintenance Supervisor............................................
Assistant Custodian ...................................................................
Assistant Superintendent of Electrical Generation .......
Bridge Inspector..........................................................................
Bureau Manager – Housing....................................................
Bureau Manager – Demolition...............................................
Bureau Manager – Building ...................................................
Cable Production Manager ......................................................
Chief Bridge Operator...............................................................
Chief Safety Signal System ....................................................
Chief Sidewalk Inspector.........................................................
Chief Street Permit Inspector ................................................
Chief of Traffic Signal Unit ..................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspector Supervisor ..............................................................
Correctional Supervisor.............................................................
District Forester ..........................................................................
Environmental Assistant..........................................................
Field Operations Forester........................................................
General Superintendent of Waste Collection ...................
Instrumentation Supervisor .....................................................
Parking Meter Foreman...........................................................
Printing Foreman .......................................................................
Supervisor of Parking Enforcement Unit .........................
Supervisor of Markets...............................................................
Supervisor of Weights and Measures .................................
Survey Party Chief ....................................................................

Minimum
$21,019.66
20,800.00
21,019.66
20,800.00
26,797.11
26,797.11
26,797.11
20,800.00
20,800.00
18.60
20,800.00
20,800.00
18.60

Maximum
$62,676.62
49,927.75
58,437.70
42,965.47
84,633.53
84,633.53
84,633.53
95,880.64
51,675.20
37.91
47,332.96
45,020.62
37.91

34,464.91
20,800.00
31,043.38
20,800.00
32,445.00
30,473.96
29,200.50
24,679.38
28,404.92
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00

58,577.78
52,733.77
60,107.09
52,733.77
62,378.11
65,693.91
69,179.64
42,476.36
53,668.36
41,895.39
46,595.86
65,556.14
58,026.67

Section 33. That the salaries and the compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.

Accountant IV ............................................................................
Airport Operations Agent III ...............................................
Assistant Personnel Administrator ......................................
Assistant Water Plant Manager ...........................................
Assistant Water Plant Manager – Parma ........................
Budget and Management Analyst ........................................
Chief Animal Control Officer .................................................
Labor Relations Assistant .......................................................
Machinist Unit Leader ..............................................................
Rehabilitation Supervisor ........................................................
Superintendent of Sewer Maintenance................................
Supervisor of Architectural Construction ..........................
Supervisor of Personnel Records ..........................................
Supervisor of Site Development ............................................
Supervisor of Vital Statistics .................................................
Systems Analyst ..........................................................................
Water System Construction Inspector Supervisor ..........

Minimum
$20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
10.00
10.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
14.28
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00

Maximum
$61,213.89
57,473.28
57,473.28
34.11
34.11
57,473.28
84,555.45
55,528.34
25.77
55,528.34
76,867.55
57,496.23
55,528.34
55,528.34
57,473.28
63,677.78
64,449.34

Section 34. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

480

April 9, 2014
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.

The City Record

Airport Maintenance Superintendent ...................................
Assistant Commissioner of Recreation...............................
Assistant Contract Compliance Officer ..............................
Assistant Income Tax ...............................................................
Assistant Manager of Audit Control and Personnel.....
Assistant Manager of Recreation .........................................
Auditor ............................................................................................
Chief of the Demolition Bureau ...........................................
City Planner..................................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Recreation-Fiscal Control......
Deputy Project Director ...........................................................
Desktop Publishing Specialist ...............................................
District Supervisor - Environmental Health ....................
Income Tax Supervisor.............................................................
Office of Professional Standards - Standards
Research/Analyst ....................................................................
Recreation Center Manager ....................................................
Senior Tax Auditor ....................................................................
Superintendent of Vehicle Administrative Services ......
Supervisor Administrative Services-Data Processing
Center ..........................................................................................
Welfare Liaison ...........................................................................

37
Minimum
$20,092.80
20,092.80
20,092.80
20,092.80
20,092.80
20,092.80
20,092.80
20,092.80
30,000.00
20,092.80
20,092.80
20,231.40
20,092.80
20,092.80

Maximum
$65,041.78
73,916.85
58,564.01
58,564.01
60,614.58
58,564.01
60,614.58
58,564.01
62,541.14
73,916.85
64,734.08
59,870.58
62,541.14
58,564.01

20,092.80
32,500.00
20,092.80
20,092.80

58,564.01
73,916.85
50,312.58
72,945.53

20,092.80
20,092.80

58,564.01
58,564.01

Section 35. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.

Aging Services Administrator................................................
Air Pollution Control, Engineer IV ...................................
Airport Safety Shift Commander ..........................................
Assistant Administrator............................................................
Assistant Aging Services Administrator............................
Assistant Manager of Marketing..........................................
Assistant Security Manager ....................................................
Central Payroll Supervisor ......................................................
Chief Building Inspector..........................................................
Chief Electrical Inspector .......................................................
Chief Elevator Inspector..........................................................
Chief Heating Inspector...........................................................
Chief Rehabilitation Supervisor ............................................
Chore Services Coordinator .....................................................
Contract Supervisor - Division of Purchases and
Supplies .......................................................................................
Data Processing Supervisor ....................................................
Manager of Public Utilities - Building Maintenance....
Senior Systems Analyst ............................................................
Shift Supervisor Operations ....................................................
Superintendent of Distribution ..............................................
Superintendent of Purchase Power......................................
Supervising Tax Auditor .........................................................
Supervisor of Civil Service Records ....................................

Minimum
$27,325.56
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00

Maximum
$90,312.42
65,041.78
73,916.85
58,564.01
64,132.74
58,564.01
60,614.58
58,564.01
70,053.60
70,053.60
70,053.60
70,053.60
73,916.85
53,570.40

20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
27,325.56
20,800.00
20,800.00

64,734.08
59,870.58
58,564.01
42,414.34
58,564.01
73,916.85
95,499.54
58,564.01
58,564.01

Section 36. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.

Airport Operations Superintendent.......................................
Airport Security Coordinator ..................................................
Assistant Airport Safety Chief/ Training Officer .........
Human Resources Program Planning &
Management Specialist .........................................................
Assistant Manager of Stage ...................................................
Chief of Bureau of Accounts and Collections .................
Chief of Bureau of Smoke Abatement ...............................
Chief Engineer-Traffic ..............................................................
Chief Senior Electric Switchboard Operator ....................
Chief of Tax Auditing Bureau..............................................
Chief of Tax Records Bureau ...............................................
Deputy Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies .........
Grants Administrator.................................................................
Health Center Director .............................................................
Human Resources Fiscal Administrator ............................
Income Tax Financial Supervisor ........................................
Manager of Assigned Maintenance......................................
Manager of Parks and Recreation Research and
Planning .....................................................................................

481

Minimum
$23,333.40
23,333.40
23,333.40

Maximum
$67,822.56
65,528.58
65,528.58

22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40

65,528.58
65,528.58
65,528.58
65,528.58
76,344.01
82,416.00
67,822.56
65,528.58
77,446.20
77,446.20
77,446.20
65,528.58
65,528.58
76,344.01

22,333.40

76,344.01

38
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.

The City Record
Manager of Parks and Urban Forestry .............................
Manager of Site Development................................................
Prevailing Wage Coordinator ................................................
Project Director ...........................................................................
Programming Supervisor..........................................................
Superintendent of Sidewalks ..................................................
Warehouse Inventory Manager .............................................
Water Business Plan Assistant Manager..........................

April 9, 2014
22,333.40
22,333.40
27,193.50
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40

76,344.01
76,344.01
65,528.62
82,706.96
65,528.58
65,528.58
82,706.96
82,706.96

Section 37. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.

Accountant Supervisor ..............................................................
Assistant Chief of Water Distribution ...............................
Assistant Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses
Assistant Commissioner, Division of Printing and
Reproduction .............................................................................
Building Manager .......................................................................
Business Process Analyst ........................................................
Chief Architect.............................................................................
Chief Auditor – Utilities ..........................................................
Chief City Planner .....................................................................
Chief, Computer Operations ....................................................
Chief Engineer – Civil .............................................................
Chief Engineer – Mechanical.................................................
Chief Legal Investigator - Civil Branch ...........................
Chief of Street Lighting and Electrical Services ..........
Chief of Laboratories ................................................................
Chief of Purification .................................................................
Convention Manager ..................................................................
Development Finance Analyst I ...........................................
Development Finance Analyst II .........................................
Financial Systems Coordinator..............................................
Fiscal Grants Administrator...................................................
Fiscal Manager ............................................................................
Health Promotion Coordinator ...............................................
Investment Manager ..................................................................
Manager of Enterprise Unit ...................................................
Manager of Events.....................................................................
Manager of General Maintenance ........................................
Manager of Markets ..................................................................
Manager of Parking ..................................................................
Manager of Recreation .............................................................
Master Plan Examiner..............................................................
Purchasing Supervisor - Division of Purchases and
Supplies .......................................................................................
Secretary to the Board of Building Standards and
Building Appeals.....................................................................
Secretary to the Board of Zoning Appeals ......................
Security Manager ........................................................................
Senior Internal Auditor ............................................................
Senior Programmer Analyst ...................................................
Supervisor - Information Control ..........................................
Theatrical Manager....................................................................
Water Plant Manager ...............................................................

Minimum
$23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11

Maximum
$74,729.73
89,285.75
87,143.34

23,647.11
23,647.11
55,000.00
23,647.11
23,647.11
30,000.00
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
34,000.00
51,043.20
23,647.11
40,000.00
23,647.11
22,333.40
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
40,000.00
23,647.11

87,143.34
80,438.24
100,805.07
104,877.59
87,143.34
85,281.07
87,143.34
87,143.34
87,143.34
69,041.87
100,519.11
82,780.43
89,285.75
80,438.24
62,034.52
87,567.00
69,041.87
88,693.33
87,143.34
79,595.52
87,143.34
80,438.24
80,438.24
80,438.24
80,438.24
80,438.24
80,438.24
104,877.59

23,647.11

69,041.87

23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11

85,281.07
85,281.07
93,423.65
69,041.87
71,459.83
69,041.87
69,041.87
100,519.11

Section 38. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.

Airport Maintenance Manager ...............................................
Airport Operations Manager ...................................................
Airport Safety Chief ..................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Administrative Services.....
Assistant Commissioner of Cleveland Public Power ....
Assistant Commissioner of Code Enforcement................
Assistant Commissioner of Construction Permitting ....
Assistant Commissioner of Information Technology
and Services ..............................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Motor Vehicles
Maintenance ..............................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Real Estate ............................
Assistant Commissioner of Neighborhood Services .......
Assistant Commissioner of Streets.......................................
Assistant Commissioner of Water Pollution Control....
Assistant Director of Community Relations Board .......

482

Minimum
$26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
27,325.56
26,273.96
26,273.96

Maximum
$92,066.54
92,066.54
92,066.54
92,066.54
125,945.67
92,066.54
92,066.54

23,647.11

88,525.69

26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96

92,066.54
92,066.54
92,066.54
92,066.54
92,066.54
92,066.54

April 9, 2014
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.

The City Record

Assistant Income Tax Administrator..................................
Assistant Superintendent of Electric Transmission
and Distribution ......................................................................
Building and Housing Executive Assistant .....................
Chief of Air Pollution Enforcement ....................................
Chief of Air Pollution Engineering ....................................
Chief of Air Pollution Monitoring .......................................
Chief Civil Service Examiner ................................................
Chief of Water Distribution ...................................................
Chief Training Officer ..............................................................
City Hall Custodian ...................................................................
Community Development Executive Assistant ................
Contract Compliance Officer...................................................
Deputy Budget Administrator ................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Accounts ......................................
Deputy Commissioner of Air Pollution Control ..............
Deputy Commissioner of Airports ........................................
Deputy Commissioner of Convention Center and
Stadium .......................................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Convention Center....................
Deputy Commissioner of Environment...............................
Deputy Commissioner of Information Technology
and Systems Services ............................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Maintenance ...............................
Deputy Commissioner of Park and Urban Forestry .....
Deputy Commissioner of Parks and Urban
Forestry/Golf Courses and Cemeteries ..........................
Deputy Commissioner of Recreation ...................................
Director of Public Health Nurses.........................................
Fair Housing Administrator ...................................................
General Manager of Administrative Services ..................
Human Resources Program Planning &
Management Administrator .................................................
Office of Professional Standards Administrator.............
Personnel Administrator ..........................................................
Senior Budget and Management Analyst ..........................
Superintendent of Motorized Equipment ...........................
Utilities Comptroller ..................................................................

39
26,273.96

92,066.54

26,273.96
26,273.96
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96

87,567.00
92,066.54
82,706.96
82,706.96
82,706.96
72,945.53
94,606.21
72,945.53
72,945.53
92,066.54
72,945.53
84,984.86
91,058.48
84,984.86
84,984.86

26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96

84,984.86
84,984.86
84,984.86

30,214.95
26,273.96
26,273.96

102,907.21
84,984.86
84,984.86

26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
31,500.00
26,273.96

84,984.86
84,984.86
84,984.86
90,727.82
93,908.62

26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96

84,984.86
72,945.53
84,984.86
80,628.83
72,945.53
92,066.54

Section 39. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.

Administrative Manager ...........................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Water........................................
Assistant Secretary of Sinking Fund Commission ........
Chief of Health Planning and Evaluation .......................
Chief-Systems Analysis .............................................................
Consulting Engineer ..................................................................
Harbor Manager ..........................................................................
Labor Relations Officer............................................................
Manager of Compensation and Classifications ...............
Manager of Education and Research .................................
Manager of Employee Relations ..........................................
Manager of Equal Employment Opportunity...................
Minority Business Development Administrator ...............
Project Coordinator ....................................................................
Risk Manager...............................................................................
Superintendent of Electric Trouble Operations ..............
Water Business Plan Manager..............................................
Health Services Administrator...............................................

Minimum
$27,193.55
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
36,000.00
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56

Maximum
$104,891.07
125,945.67
100,773.99
79,843.51
100,773.99
97,860.03
100,773.99
79,843.51
90,312.42
90,312.42
93,021.80
93,021.80
79,843.51
93,021.80
100,773.99
79,843.51
93,021.80
79,843.51

Section 40. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Administrator of Engineering and Planning...................
Airport Chief Engineer.............................................................
Assistant City Comptroller ......................................................
Airport Planning Environmental Officer...........................
Air Trade Development Manager .........................................
Assistant Director of Human Resources and
Economic Development .........................................................
Budget Administrator ................................................................
Comptroller-Airports ...................................................................
Data Base Analyst .....................................................................

483

Minimum
$30,214.95
30,214.95
41,312.22
30,214.95
30,214.95

Maximum
$115,924.76
115,924.76
117,075.20
91,848.40
107,006.06

30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95

115,924.43
107,006.06
115,924.76
91,848.40

40
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.

The City Record
Deputy Commissioner of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport .............................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Parks, Maintenance and
Properties ...................................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Water ............................................
Deputy Commissioner of Water Pollution Control ........
Environmental Programs Manager ......................................
Executive Commissioner of Public Safety –
Operations ..................................................................................
Executive Commissioner of Public Safety –
Projects, Grants and Technology .....................................
Field Manager..............................................................................
Fleet Management Data Manager........................................
GIS/IS Coordinator .....................................................................
In-Charge Senior Internal Auditor .......................................
Labor Relations Manager ........................................................
Manager of Marketing ..............................................................
Manager of Telecommunications ..........................................
Nurse Practitioner.......................................................................
Permit Review Manager ..........................................................
Project Leader/Applications ...................................................
Safety Programs Manager.......................................................
Section Chief – Architecture & Site Development .........
Section Chief – Engineering & Construction...................
Software Analyst.........................................................................
Superintendent of Electric Transmission and
Distribution ...............................................................................
Supervisor of Computer Operations .....................................
Supervisor Hardware Evaluation .........................................
Veterinarian in Charge of Spay and Neuter Clinic ......

April 9, 2014
30,214.95

107,006.06

30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
45,000.00

107,006.06
133,631.28
107,006.06
89,875.90

36,590.39

146,639.64

36,590.39
35,000.00
30,000.00
52,000.00
49,500.00
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
45,000.00
30,214.95
40,000.00
50,000.00
45,000.00

146,639.64
61,236.86
68,793.87
96,652.20
86,918.31
115,924.76
107,006.06
107,006.06
107,006.06
107,006.06
94,606.21
91,848.40
100,773.99
100,773.99
89,875.90

50,000.00
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95

102,337.75
91,848.40
91,848.40
91,848.40

Section 41. That the appointing authority shall fix the salaries in the following classifications in accordance
with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.

Assistant Building Official ...................................................
City Comptroller ..........................................................................
City Treasurer..............................................................................
Chief Technology Officer.........................................................
Commissioner of Accounts ......................................................
Commissioner of Administrative Services Community Development......................................................
Commissioner of Air Quality .................................................
Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses....................
Commissioner of Burke Airport ............................................
Commissioner of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport .........................................................................................
Commissioner of Cleveland Public Power ........................
Commissioner of Code Enforcement....................................
Commissioner of Construction Permitting ........................
Commissioner of Emergency Medical Services ...............
Commissioner of Environment...............................................
Commissioner of Health ...........................................................
Commissioner of House of Corrections ..............................
Commissioner of Information Technology & Services .
Commissioner of Motor Vehicle Maintenance..................
Commissioner of Neighborhood Development ..................
Commissioner of Real Estate ................................................
Commissioner of Neighborhood Services ...........................
Commissioner of Park Maintenance and Properties.....
Commissioner of Parking Facilities....................................
Commissioner of Printing and Reproduction...................
Commissioner of Property Management ............................
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies .........................
Commissioner of Recreation ...................................................
Commissioner of Streets...........................................................
Commissioner of Traffic Engineering ................................
Commissioner of Utilities Fiscal Control ..........................
Commissioner of Waste Collection and Disposal...........
Commissioner of Water ............................................................
Commissioner of Water Pollution Control ........................
Deputy City Treasurer..............................................................
Deputy Director Department of Building and Housing
Director of Workforce Development ...................................
Income Tax Administrator ......................................................
Manager of Administration – Public Works....................
Manager of Internal Audit .....................................................

484

Minimum
$42,758.15
42,758.15
42,758.15
80,000.00
40,314.82

Maximum
$142,024.13
142,024.13
131,098.50
206,040.00
136,049.25

40,314.82
42,758.15
40,314.82
40,314.92

136,049.25
142,024.13
125,582.86
125,582.86

42,758.15
45,201.46
42,758.15
42,758.15
42,758.15
42,758.15
45,021.46
40,314.82
52,734.82
40,314.82
40,314.82
40,314.82
42,758.15
42,758.15
40,314.82
40,314.82
45,201.46
42,758.15
42,758.15
40,314.82
42,758.15
40,314.82
40,314.82
45,201.46
40,314.82
26,273.96
36,590.39
70,000.00
42,758.15
40,314.82
40,314.82

152,120.83
177,386.65
142,024.13
142,024.13
142,024.13
142,024.13
150,984.16
125,456.57
150,984.16
136,049.25
125,582.86
125,582.86
131,098.50
152,120.83
136,049.25
136,049.25
150,984.16
131,098.50
152,120.83
136,049.25
131,098.50
125,582.86
136,049.25
212,221.20
136,049.25
88,406.29
142,024.13
169,776.96
142,024.13
125,582.86
125,582.86

April 9, 2014

The City Record

41

Section 42. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Administration Bureau Manager...........................................
Assistant Manager - Applications Development and
Technical Support ...................................................................
Assistant Manager - Data Processing Operations .........
Assistant to Manager of Planning ......................................
Deputy Commissioner of Cleveland Public Power ........

Minimum
$40,314.82

Maximum
$136,049.25

46,224.91
46,224.91
46,224.91
46,224.91

128,595.56
118,705.54
118,705.54
133,631.28

Section 43. That the salaries in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.

Application Delivery Services Manager .............................
Customer Support Center Manager ......................................
Database Administrator............................................................
Database Coordinator ................................................................
Information Technology Security Officer..........................
IT Asset Management Analyst..............................................
IT Asset Management Coordinator ......................................
IT Network and Data Center Operations Manager.......
IT Project Manager I ...............................................................
IT Project Manager II..............................................................
IT Quality Assurance and Control Analyst .....................
IT Telecommunications Analyst I .......................................
IT Telecommunications Analyst II......................................
IT Telecommunications Technician II ...............................
IT Training Analyst..................................................................
IT Training Coordinator ..........................................................
Network Analyst II ....................................................................
PC Technician ..............................................................................
Program Manager .......................................................................
Supervisor Applications Development .................................
Supervisor of Systems and Technical Support ................
Supervisor Software Support ..................................................
Web Developer.............................................................................
Web Master ...................................................................................

Minimum
$65,000.00
65,000.00
39,937.34
30,214.00
30,215.00
25,000.00
22,333.00
55,000.00
20,800.00
22,333.00
20,800.00
30,214.00
30,214.00
44,803.00
38,000.00
38,000.00
30,214.00
25,000.00
30,214.00
39,937.34
55,000.00
39,937.34
30,215.00
30,215.00

Maximum
$100,519.11
100,519.11
113,107.23
83,568.06
83,241.98
53,215.99
79,910.10
112,045.37
62,545.73
82,275.26
62,545.73
74,109.73
91,848.40
76,006.45
65,041.78
76,412.88
92,985.05
51,170.01
86,155.95
89,614.13
88,693.33
89,614.13
86,155.95
103,389.44

Section 44. That the appointing authority shall fix the salary of the Manager, Data Processing Center, at not
less than $52,308.90 per annum and not more than $132,802.32 per annum. Moreover, not more than one person shall
be appointed to such classification.
Section 45. Part-Time/Seasonal Group.
That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in
accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Head Usher....................................................................................
Law Clerk ......................................................................................
Organ Tuner .................................................................................
Park Maintenance Aide ............................................................
School Crossing Guard (Per Day) .......................................
Student Aide .................................................................................
Student Assistant ........................................................................
Usher................................................................................................
Usher Captain...............................................................................

Minimum
$10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
20.50
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00

Maximum
$12.90
14.19
28.52
11.37
29.58
11.37
11.37
11.37
11.37

Section 46. Treasurers and Ticket Sellers Union, Local 756. That salaries and compensation in the following
classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each
classification:

1.
2.

Assistant Manager of Box Office.........................................
Box Office Cashier .....................................................................

Minimum
$23,333.40
10.33

Maximum
$52,862.83
17.44

Section 47. Local 27. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the
appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.

Stage Hand....................................................................................
Stage Hand Casual.....................................................................
Stage Hand - Show Rate (Per Show) ................................

Minimum
$19.11
20.60
64.89

Maximum
$30.77
29.51
99.91

Section 48. Hourly Rate - Building & Construction Trades Council.
Compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by
the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification:

485

42

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.

The City Record
Effective
Date
Asbestos Worker (Insulator) ................................................. 8/1/13
Boiler Maker ................................................................................. 1/1/13
Bricklayer ...................................................................................... 5/1/13
Bricklayer Foreman ................................................................... 5/1/13
Carpenter ........................................................................................ 5/1/13
Carpenter Foreman..................................................................... 5/1/13
Cement Finisher .......................................................................... 5/1/13
Cement Finisher Foreman....................................................... 5/1/13
Electrical Worker ....................................................................... 4/29/13
Electrical Worker Foreman .................................................... 4/29/13
Glazier ............................................................................................. 5/1/13
Ironworker ..................................................................................... 5/1/13
Ironworker Foreman.................................................................. 5/1/13
Painter............................................................................................. 6/3/13
Painter Foreman ......................................................................... 6/3/13
Pipefitter (Welder) .................................................................... 5/1/13
Pipefitter Foreman ..................................................................... 5/1/13
Plasterer ......................................................................................... 5/1/13
Plasterer Foreman ...................................................................... 5/1/13
Plumber (Welder)....................................................................... 5/1/13
Plumber Foreman ....................................................................... 5/1/13
Roofer .............................................................................................. 4/28/13
Sheet Metal Worker ................................................................... 5/1/13
Sheet Metal Worker Foreman................................................ 5/1/13

April 9, 2014
Minimum
$44.30
47.49
36.43
37.68
36.13
37.37
36.67
37.92
45.13
46.38
35.29
41.13
42.38
31.86
33.11
44.14
45.39
35.46
36.71
44.18
45.43
36.72
45.23
46.48

Maximum
$55.38
59.36
45.54
46.54
45.15
46.30
45.84
46.59
56.41
57.56
44.11
51.41
53.91
39.82
40.82
55.17
55.67
44.33
45.83
55.23
56.73
45.90
56.54
58.64

Section 49. Hourly Rate - 1099 Crafts.
Compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by
the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Effective
Date
Asphalt Construction Unit Leader........................................ 4/1//2012
Asphalt Tamper ........................................................................... 4/1//2012
Bricklayer Helper ....................................................................... 4/1//2012
Jackhammer Operator ............................................................... 4/1//2012
Paver................................................................................................ 4/1//2012
Paving Unit Leader ................................................................... 4/1//2012
Superintendent of Construction Equipment ...................... 4/1//2012

Minimum
$25.09
24.06
24.70
24.06
24.40
25.09
25.09

Maximum
$37.64
36.08
37.06
36.08
36.60
37.64
37.64

Section 50. Hourly Rate - MCEO.
Effective May 1, 2012, compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each
classification:

1.
2.
3.

Construction Equipment - Group A .....................................
Construction Equipment - Group B .....................................
Master Mechanic..........................................................................

Minimum
$38.92
38.80
39.30

Maximum
$48.65
48.50
49.12

Section 51. Municipal Court Employees.
That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in
accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
19.

Deputy Bailiff ..............................................................................
Deputy Bailiff Administrative Assistant I .......................
Deputy Bailiff Administrative Assistant II .....................
Deputy Bailiff Alcohol & Drug Treatment
Coordinator/Drug Court Case Manager .........................
Deputy Bailiff Assistant Chief of Security ......................
Deputy Bailiff Assistant Jury Commissioner ..................
Deputy Bailiff Central Scheduler .........................................
Deputy Bailiff Chief Bailiff ...................................................
Deputy Bailiff Chief Court Reporter ..................................
Deputy Bailiff Chief Deputy Bailiff ...................................
Deputy Bailiff Chief Magistrate ...........................................
Deputy Bailiff Chief of Security ..........................................
Deputy Bailiff Chief Probation Officer..............................
Deputy Bailiff Chief Social Worker....................................
Deputy Bailiff Clerical Staff..................................................
Deputy Bailiff Clerk Typist ...................................................
Deputy Bailiff Clerk Typist Supervisor ............................
Deputy Bailiff Court Reporter...............................................

486

Minimum
$27,491.00
34,167.00
39,167.00

Maximum
$53,833.98
50,676.00
58,092.00

48,750.00
48,750.00
44,167.00
27,492.00
42,000.00
52,500.00
58,333.00
71,667.00
48,750.00
58,333.00
48,750.00
27,492.00
24,525.00
39,167.00
36,509.00

72,306.00
72,306.00
64,890.00
53,833.98
95,172.00
77,868.00
86,520.00
106,296.00
72,306.00
95,172.00
77,868.00
53,833.98
50,842.86
58,092.00
61,958.62

April 9, 2014
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.

The City Record

Deputy Bailiff Court Administrator ....................................
Deputy Bailiff Database Administrator II .......................
Deputy Bailiff Data Processor I ..........................................
Deputy Bailiff Deputy Chief Court Reporter ..................
Deputy Bailiff Deputy Court Administrator ....................
Deputy Bailiff Deputy Director Central Scheduling.....
Deputy Bailiff Deputy Director Information
Technology ................................................................................
Deputy Bailiff Director Central Scheduling.....................
Deputy Bailiff Director Information Technology ..........
Deputy Bailiff Drug Court Coordinator .............................
Deputy Bailiff Finance Director...........................................
Deputy Bailiff HR/Personnel Director...............................
Deputy Bailiff Intake Coordinator.......................................
Deputy Bailiff Jury Commissioner ......................................
Deputy Bailiff Law Clerk .......................................................
Deputy Bailiff Magistrate .......................................................
Deputy Bailiff Magistrate Project Coordinator ..............
Deputy Bailiff Network Engineer I ....................................
Deputy Bailiff Network Engineer II ..................................
Deputy Bailiff Network Engineer III.................................
Deputy Bailiff Office Manager..............................................
Deputy Bailiff Private Secretary..........................................
Deputy Bailiff Probation Officer Supervisor ...................
Deputy Bailiff Probation Systems
Administrator/Trainer ...........................................................
Deputy Bailiff Probation Training Coordinator .............
Deputy Bailiff Program Analyst I ......................................
Deputy Bailiff Program Analyst II.....................................
Deputy Bailiff Project Manager II......................................
Deputy Bailiff Psychiatric Social Worker ........................
Deputy Bailiff Psychology Assistant..................................
Deputy Bailiff Public Information Officer .......................
Deputy Bailiff Special Projects Officer .............................
Deputy Bailiff Supervisor........................................................
Deputy Bailiff System Analyst II ........................................
Deputy Bailiff Technical Support Specialist I ................
Deputy Bailiff Technical Support Specialist II ..............
Deputy Bailiff Technical Support Specialist III ............
Deputy Bailiff Warrant Officer ............................................
Probation Officer General .......................................................
Personal Bailiff ...........................................................................

43
79,167.00
52,500.00
27,083.00
48,750.00
71,667.00
48,750.00

117,420.00
77,868.00
40,170.00
72,306.00
106,296.00
72,306.00

64,167.00
52,500.00
71,667.00
52,500.00
52,500.00
58,333.00
34,167.00
48,750.00
20,000.00
58,333.00
39,167.00
39,167.00
44,167.00
52,500.00
48,750.00
33,554.00
48,750.00

95,172.00
77,868.00
106,296.00
77,868.00
77,868.00
86,520.00
50,676.00
72,306.00
24,720.00
86,520.00
64,890.00
58,092.00
64,890.00
77,868.00
72,306.00
41,987.95
72,306.00

48,750.00
44,167.00
39,167.00
52,500.00
64,167.00
34,167.00
27,083.00
48,750.00
48,750.00
44,167.00
52,500.00
27,083.00
39,167.00
44,167.00
27,492.00
34,035.00
63,969.00

72,306.00
64,890.00
58,092.00
77,868.00
95,172.00
50,676.00
40,170.00
72,306.00
72,306.00
64,890.00
77,868.00
40,170.00
58,092.00
64,890.00
58,092.00
61,981.28
79,065.89

Section 52. Housing Court Employees.
That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in
accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.

Chief Housing
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court

Court Specialist .............................................
Administrative Assistant...........................
Administrator.................................................
ADR Specialist ..............................................
Chief Bailiff ...................................................
Chief Magistrate...........................................
Coordinator .....................................................
Court Reporter ..............................................
Deputy Bailiff ...............................................
Deputy Bailiff – Uniformed .....................
Deputy Bailiff Supervisor.........................
Deputy Bailiff/Finance Officer ..............
Deputy Bailiff/Judicial Clerk .................
Deputy Bailiff/Staff Attorney.................
Magistrate .......................................................
Magistrates’ Personal Bailiff ..................
Personal Bailiff ............................................
Project Coordinator .....................................
Receptionist....................................................
Scheduler .........................................................
Secretary..........................................................
Specialist .........................................................
Specialist - Mediation Coordinator ........
Student Aide ..................................................

Minimum
$52,158.83
23,063.94
64,815.84
42,178.00
38,884.00
71,667.00
23,064.00
23,715.99
22,173.84
22,173.84
42,815.88
38,544.06
21,993.75
29,585.00
42,178.32
23,063.94
63,969.00
31,050.00
23,064.00
23,063.94
20,815.92
34,000.00
29,585.48
10.30

Maximum
$86,233.74
54,990.00
96,917.89
84,012.07
88,026.00
116,982.00
52,418.10
58,166.16
54,367.68
54,367.68
69,786.54
70,048.00
50,839.15
69,902.23
91,529.00
51,104.81
88,389.00
67,369.91
35,083.94
51,104.81
38,151.00
69,000.00
58,781.03
10.30

Section 53. Clerk of Court Employees.
That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in
accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

487

44

The City Record

1.
2.
3.
4.

Chief Deputy Clerk — Full Time ........................................
Chief Deputy Clerk — Part Time .......................................
Clerk of Court Student Aide ..................................................
Deputy Clerk ................................................................................

April 9, 2014
Minimum
$20,800.00
9.00
9.00
20,800.00

Maximum
$93,435.40
25.75
9.00
93,435.45

Section 54. Division of Police; Chief of Police and Deputy Chief of Police.
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following ranks of the Division of Police shall be fixed by the
appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.

Rank
Chief of Police .............................................................................
Deputy Chief of Police .............................................................

Minimum
$69,682.20
63,966.00

Maximum
$175,910.15
148,201.09

Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 171.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Chief of Police shall not be entitled to receive any overtime compensation while serving as
Chief of Police.
Section 55. Fraternal Order of Police, Lodge No. 8 (F.O.P.) The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following ranks of the Division of Police shall be fixed by the appointing authority within the limits established
in the following schedules:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Commander of Police ................................................................
Commissioner of Traffic Control ..........................................
Captain ............................................................................................
Lieutenant ......................................................................................
Sergeant ..........................................................................................

Minimum
$100,062.71
100,062.71
86,191.98
74,234.47
63,926.27

Maximum
$100,562.71
100,562.71
86,691.98
74,734.47
64,426.27

Section 56. Cleveland Police Patrolmen’s Association (Non-Civilian) - Division of Police; Patrol Officers.
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the ranks of patrol officer shall be fixed by the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Patrol Officer I............................................................................
Patrol Officer II ..........................................................................
Patrol Officer III ........................................................................
Patrol Officer IV.........................................................................
Trainee ............................................................................................

Minimum
$53,922.22
48,815.46
47,116.49
45,904.64
10.50

Maximum
$55,539.89
50,279.92
48,529.98
47,281.78
10.50

Section 57. Division of Police; Various Positions.
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following classifications within the Division of Police shall be
fixed by the Director of Public Safety within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Forensic Video Specialist ........................................................
Crime Analyst I...........................................................................
Crime Analyst II.........................................................................
Crime Analyst III .......................................................................
Intelligence Analyst I...............................................................
Intelligence Analyst II .............................................................
Intelligence Analyst III ...........................................................
Occupational Medical Director ...............................................
Police Stress Consultant ..........................................................
Public Safety Information Technology ..............................
Manager

Minimum
$50,000.00
38,000.00
53,000.00
66,000.00
38,000.00
53,000.00
66,000.00
43,107.75
75,000.00
65,000.00

Maximum
$75,000.00
52,000.00
65,000.00
80,000.00
52,000.00
65,000.00
80,000.00
$82,687.47
125,000.00
110,000.00

Section 58. Division of Fire; Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief.
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following ranks of the Division of Fire shall be fixed by the
appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.

Fire Chief ......................................................................................
Assistant Fire Chief ..................................................................

Minimum
$64,407.00
56,790.30

Maximum
$175,910.15
128,087.58

Section 59. Division of Fire; Various Positions.
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following ranks of the Division of Fire shall be fixed by the
appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Battalion Chief.............................................................................
Captain ............................................................................................
Lieutenant ......................................................................................
Firefighter – Journeyman .......................................................
Firefighter Medic ........................................................................
Apprentice - Medic III ..............................................................
Apprentice - Medic II ................................................................

488

Minimum
$84,117.25
72,514.87
62,512.82
53,890.36
45,904.64
48,404.64
46,904.64

Maximum
$86,640.76
74,690.31
63,888.20
55,507.07
86,640.76
49,781.78
47,281.78

The City Record

April 9, 2014
8.
9.

Apprentice - Medic I..................................................................
Trainee ............................................................................................

45
45,904.64
10.50

47,281.78
10.50

Section 2. That existing Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as amended by various ordinances,
are repealed, effective April 1, 2014.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective March 31, 2014.

Ord. No. 386-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more agreements
with Cuyahoga County for administration and operation of the Family
Justice Center; and to pay the County
for its share of the costs, for a period
up to five years.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
Department of Public Safety, the
Cleveland
Municipal
Court
and
Cuyahoga County Public Safety &
Justice Services desire to cooperate
in providing a Family Justice Center that will serve victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, child
abuse, and elder abuse; and
Whereas, the model for the Family Justice Center is designed to
address pitfalls commonly faced by
victims, including an often fragmented assistance system, and services offered at the Family Justice
Center will bridge the gap by offering a more rational, collaborative,
victim-centered
service
delivery
approach with increased data and
information
sharing
capabilities;
and
Whereas, the City and Cuyahoga
County will share in the cost of
operating the Family Justice Center;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with Cuyahoga County for administration and
operation of the Family Justice Center, for a period up to five years. That
the agreement shall provide, among
other things, that the City shall pay
the County an amount of up to
$175,000 annually for its share of the
costs associated with the operation of
the Family Justice Center.
Section 2. That the agreement shall
be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 3. That the costs for budget
year 2014 of the agreement shall be
paid from the fund or funds approved
by the Director of Finance, and the
costs for each annual payment for
budget years 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018
are subject to annual appropriation.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

Ord. No. 390-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving
the collective bargaining agreement
with the Cleveland Scientific Examiners – Fingerprinters (FOP-OLCI).
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B)
of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code,
this Council approves the collective
bargaining agreement with the
Cleveland Scientific Examiners – Fingerprinters (FOP-OLCI), under the
terms contained in File No. 390-14-A,
for the period from April 1, 2013
through March 31, 2016, and which
provides, among other things, for an
increase in the salaries and wages for
members of the bargaining unit under
the following schedule:
Increase

Approximate Date
of Increase*

1%
2%
2%

April 1, 2013
April 1, 2014
April 1, 2015

* Wage increases shall be effective as
follows:
Wage increases shall be effective:
(a) During the pay period in which
April 1st falls if April 1st falls in the
first week of a pay period; or (b) During the pay period following the pay
period in which April 1st falls if April
1st falls in the second week of a pay
period.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective March 31, 2014.

Ord. No. 391-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing payment of membership dues of
the City of Cleveland in Global Cleveland for 2013.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

489

Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to cause payment of membership dues of the City
of Cleveland in the amount of $25,000
to be made to Global Cleveland for
2013, from funds approved by the
Director of Finance for this purpose.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

Ord. No. 431-14.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance of a Frozen Dessert
Mobile Permit to Shawn Stephens to
engage in mobile vending in Ward 11.
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council
expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to peddling upon public rights
of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, This Council has considered
the
request
of
Shawn
Stephens to engage in mobile vending outside of the Central Business
district, and has determined that it
is in the public interest to allow
Shawn Stephens to engage in mobile
vending in Ward 11; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by, Section 675.08 of
the Codified Ordinances to allow to
Shawn Stephens to engage in mobile
vending in the public rights of way in
Ward 11.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons
named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 3. That the privilege granted may be revoked at any time by this
Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

46
Ord. No. 432-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Westside Catholic Center Run on May 31, 2014, sponsored by
the Hermes Sports & Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the Westside Catholic Center Run,
start: Westside Catholic Center, West
32nd and Lorain; West 32nd north to
Fulton; Fulton north to Franklin
Blvd; Franklin Blvd west to West 65th
(turn around) Franklin Blvd east to
West 38th; West 38th south to
at
the
Westside
Lorain—finish
Catholic Center; provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary in
order to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and all
liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

Ord. No. 433-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Ohio City Run & Crawl,
on June 14, 2014, sponsored by Hermes
Sports & Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the Ohio City Run & Crawl; start: Market St. & West 26th; West 26th north to
Carroll, Carroll west to West 28th;
West 28th north to Jay, Jay west to
West 30th; West 30th north to Fulton,
Fulton north to Clinton; Clinton west
to West 45th, West 45th south to
Franklin; Franklin west to West 58th,
West 58th south to Bridge; Bridge
east to West 28th, West 28th south to
Carroll; Carroll east to West 26th,
West 26th south to Market—finish
line, provided that the applicant sponsor shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined

The City Record
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order to
protect the participants in the event.
Said permit shall further provide that
the City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability
resulting from the issuance of the
same, to the extent and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

Ord. No. 434-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the annual Race to a Million run, on September 27, 2014, sponsored by Human Arc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the annual Race to a Million run,
sponsored by Human Arc, start: The
Human Arc, East 40th and St. Clair;
north on East 40th, west on St. Clair,
north on East 17th; west on Lakeside,
south on East 13th, east on St. Clair;
south on East 40th to finish line, provided that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit
shall further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

Ord. No. 435-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Urban Community
Schools Run, on May 10, 2014, sponsored by Hermes Sports & Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore

490

April 9, 2014
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the Urban Community Schools Run;
start: West 48th & Lorain; West 48th
north to Franklin, Franklin east to
Fulton; Fulton south to Bridge,
Bridge west to West 38th; West 38th
south to Fulton, Fulton north to
Franklin; Franklin west to West 48th,
West 48th to Lorain, to finish line, provided that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit
shall further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

Ord. No. 438-14.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Public Health to enter into an agreement with the Cleveland Clinic:
Minority Men’s Health Center for the
Minority Men’s Health and Community Health Educational Event through
the use of Ward 9 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Public Health is authorized to enter into an agreement effective April 24, 2014 with the Cleveland
Clinic: Minority Men’s Health Center
for the Minority’s Men’s Health and
Community Health Education Event
for the public purpose of educating
city of Cleveland residents on disease
prevention and maintaining good
health through the use of Ward 9
Casino Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $5,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval

The City Record

April 9, 2014
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

Ord. No. 439-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Sombrero Shuffle
Run/Walk, on May 3, 2014, sponsored
by the Hermes Sports & Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the Sombrero Shuffle Run/Walk, on
May 3, 2014, start: West 6th at Lakeside; Lakeside east to East 9th; East
9th south to Superior; Superior east to
East 12th; East 12th south to Chester;
Chester west to East 9th; East 9th
south to Prospect; Prospect west to
East 4th; East 4th north to Euclid;
Euclid west to Ontario; Ontario north
to St. Clair; St. Clair west to West 6th;
West 6th north to Lakeside (Finish

Line); provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order to
protect the participants in the event.
Said permit shall further provide that
the City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability
resulting from the issuance of the
same, to the extent and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 31, 2014.
Effective April 1, 2014.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

47
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Keane, Mitchell,
Pruitt, Zone. Authorized Absence:
Conwell.
5:00 p.m.
Operations
Committee:
Pruitt,
Chair;
Keane,
Mitchell, Zone.

Tuesday, April 8, 2014
9:30 a.m.
Development, Planning & Sustainability (Zoning) Committee: Present:
Brancatelli, Chair; Cleveland, Vice
Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, Dow,
Zone. Authorized Absence: Pruitt.
Development, Planning & Sustainability Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair;
Cimperman, Cummins, Dow, Zone.
Authorized Absence: Pruitt.
Wednesday, April 9, 2014
10:00 a.m.

Monday, April 7, 2014
9:30 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee: Present: Cimperman, Chair;
Mitchell, Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson.

Present:
Kelley,

Transportation
Committee:
Present: Keane, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair;
J.
Johnson,
K.
Johnson,
Reed,
Sweeney. Authorized Absence: Conwell.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Senior Lawn Care Program — grass cutting and lawn maintenance for seniors — Court
Community Service (Ward 01 NCF) (O 468-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 452

Agreements
Educational, recreational and cultural programs — Neighborhood Leadership Institute —
Cleveland Metropolitan School District (O 337-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455
Minority Men’s Health and Community Health Educational Event — Cleveland Clinic: Minority
Men’s Health Center — Health Department (Ward 09 CRF) (O 438-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 490
Port Control — professional services — management and operation of common use facilities
at CHIA (O 466-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 450
Safety Department — Cuyahoga County — Administration and operation of the Family Justice
Center (O 386-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 489
Senior Lawn Care Program — grass cutting and lawn maintenance for seniors — Court
Community Service — Aging Department (Ward 01 NCF) (O 468-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 452

Banners
Burten, Bell, Carr Development — East 55th St. and Scovill Ave. — May 28 to June 28 — Ward
5 Family Festival — Capital Projects Office (Ward 05) (O 471-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 453

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Global Positioning/Geographic Information Airfield Management System installation
and maintenance — modify Contract #PS2012*001 per BOC Res. 549-11 — Dept. of Port
Control (BOC Res. 141-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 456
Residential Sound Insulation Program, Phase 2 Continuation, General
Construction (Contract B-12-1) — per Ord. 930-95, 469-98, 327-2000 to Superior
Insulation, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 140-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455

491

The City Record

48

April 9, 2014

Board of Control — Community Development Department
West 41st Street, 2655 (Ward 14) — PPN 007-17-050 — Sheila Pemberton (BOC Res. 144-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 456
West 52nd Street, 3459 (Ward 14) — PPN 016-19-044 — Ramon Rodriguez (BOC Res. 145-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 457

Board of Control — Finance Department
Crayton Avenue and East 51st Street — sell various parcels to Perk Company, Inc. per Ord.
752-13 (BOC Res. 143-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 456

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
West 41st Street, 2655 (Ward 14) — PPN 007-17-050 — Sheila Pemberton (BOC Res. 144-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 456
West 52nd Street, 3459 (Ward 14) — PPN 016-19-044 — Ramon Rodriguez (BOC Res. 145-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 457

Board of Control — Land Sales
Crayton Avenue and East 51st Street — sell various parcels to Perk Company, Inc. per Ord.
752-13 (BOC Res. 143-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 456

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Global Positioning/Geographic Information Airfield Management System installation
and maintenance — modify Contract #PS2012*001 per BOC Res. 549-11 — Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (BOC Res. 141-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 456
Residential Sound Insulation Program, Phase 2 Continuation, General
Construction (Contract B-12-1) — per Ord. 930-95, 469-98, 327-2000 to Superior
Insulation, Inc. — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (BOC Res. 140-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Global Positioning/Geographic Information Airfield Management System installation
and maintenance — modify Contract #PS2012*001 per BOC Res. 549-11 — Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 141-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 456

Board of Control — Property Exchange
East 73rd St., 2970 and East 130th St., 3465 — property exchange — per Ord. 766-09 with
Cleveland Metropolitan School District — amended per Ord. 728-13 — Dept. of Public
Works (BOC Res. 142-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 456

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
East 149th Street sewer replacement project — per Ord. 614-13 to Terrace
Construction Company, Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 139-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455
Residential Sound Insulation Program, Phase 2 Continuation, General
Construction (Contract B-12-1) — per Ord. 930-95, 469-98, 327-2000 to Superior
Insulation, Inc. — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept.
of Port Control (BOC Res. 140-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
East 149th Street sewer replacement project — per Ord. 614-13 to Terrace
Construction Company, Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 139-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455

Board of Control — Public Works Department
East 73rd St., 2970 and East 130th St., 3465 — property exchange — per Ord. 766-09 with
Cleveland Metropolitan School District — amended per Ord. 728-13 (BOC Res. 142-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 456

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Crayton Avenue and East 51st Street — sell various parcels to Perk Company, Inc. per Ord.
752-13 (BOC Res. 143-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 456

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
East 149th Street sewer replacement project — per Ord. 614-13 to Terrace
Construction Company, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 139-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455
Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Carnegie Avenue, 1332, (Ward 5) – Michael Maloof, owner — appeal withdrawn on 4/7/14
(Cal. 14-028) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 458
East 83rd Street, 2267, (Ward 6) – Timothy Willis, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
4/7/14 (Cal. 13-263). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 458

492

April 9, 2014

The City Record

Franklin Boulevard, 3002, (Ward 3) – Nicholas Comella, owner — appeal heard on
4/7/14 (Cal. 14-033). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holmden Avenue, 1938, (Ward 14) – Eric Lutzo, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
4/7/14 (Cal. 14-026). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jay Street, 2525, (Ward 3) – 2515 Company, LLC, owner — appeal postponed to 5/19/14 on
4/7/14 (Cal. 14-007). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Landseer Road, 18311, (Ward 8) – Irene Lalak Trustee, owner — appeal dismissed on 4/7/14
(Cal. 14-027) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 4125, (Ward 3) – JC Land Holdings, owner — appeal heard on
4/7/14 (Cal. 14-032). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pearl Road, 4414-20, (Ward 13) – Brian Bodach, owner — appeal heard on 4/7/14 (Cal. 13-247)
Shaker Boulevard, 12701, (Ward 6) – Shaker North LLC, owner — appeal heard on 4/7/14
(Cal. 14-030) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 11701, (Ward 9) – Market Redevelopment, LLC, owner, and Checkers
Drive-In Restaurants, prospective tenant — appeal granted and adopted on 4/7/14
(Cal. 14-025) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wade Park Avenue, 8206, (Ward 7) – Phyllis Wilson, owner — appeal heard on 4/7/14
(Cal. 14-029) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 7th Street, 2098, (Ward 3) – Mathew A. Picorelli, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 4/7/14 (Cal. 14-039) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

49
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 458
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 458
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 458
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 458
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 458
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 458
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 458

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 458
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 458
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 458

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Clinton Avenue, 4108, (Ward 3) – Alexandru Bardan, owner — appeal to be heard on 4/21/14
(Cal. 14-021) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Avenue, 5209, (Ward 15) – Westside Ministries, owner, and The Centers for
Families and Children, tenant — appeal to be heard on 4/21/14 (Cal. 14-022) . . . . . . . . . . .
East 30th Street, 2390, (Ward 5) – Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority, owner —
appeal to be heard on 4/21/14 (Cal. 14-046) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lee Road, 4384, (Ward 1) – Johnny Abounader, owner — appeal to be heard on 4/21/14
(Cal. 14-045) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Saint Clair Avenue, 17149, (Ward 10) – All City Recycling, Inc., owner — appeal to
be heard on 4/21/14 (Cal. 14-044) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 35th Street, 3226, (Ward 14) – Leah Burchnell, owner — appeal to be heard on 4/21/14
(Cal. 14-043) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 458
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 457
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 457
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 457
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 457
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 457

Building and Housing Department
Lou Ritenour Decorators, Inc. dba WR Restoration — professional services contract —
landmarking services for Fifth Church of Christ, Scientist (Ward 15) (O 467-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 450
Requiring a time period of thirty days or more for roomers or boarders in dwelling houses
in one-family and two-family districts — Amend Section 337.02 and 337.03
(O 493-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 452

Building Code
Requiring a time period of thirty days or more for roomers or boarders in dwelling houses
in one-family and two-family districts — Amend Section 337.02 and 337.03
(O 493-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 452

Burke Lakefront Airport
Loaned United States government property — Cleveland Hopkins International — Amend
Section 139.18 (O 460-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
Rehabilitation of the Burke Lakefront Airport shoreline — public improvement
contract (O 272-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 471

Capital Projects
Bachman Court, S.W. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 198-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 470
Biddulph Rd. resurfacing (Cleveland west corporation line to Pearl Rd.) — consent —
Cuyahoga County (O 191-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 465
Burten, Bell, Carr Development — East 55th St. and Scovill Ave. — May 28 to June 28 —
Ward 5 Family Festival — banners (Ward 05) (O 471-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 453
Escape on the Lake — permit — July 12th — Villa Angela-St. Joseph High School (Ward 08)
(O 470-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 453
Huron Rd. resurfacing (Prospect Ave. to Euclid Ave.) — consent — Cuyahoga County (O 192-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 466
Morgana Run — permit — June 8th — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 12) (O 469-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 453
Munn Rd. resurfacing (Rocky River Dr. to Warren Rd .) — consent — Cuyahoga
County (O 193-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
Ohio City Run & Crawl — permit — June 14th — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03) (O 433-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 490
Race to a Million run — permit — September 27th — Human Arc (Ward 03) (O 434-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 490
Sombrero Shuffle Run/Walk — permit — May 3rd — Hermes Sports & Events
(Ward 03) (O 439-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 491
Un-named Alley North of Denison Ave., and West of West 48th St. — vacate a portion —
City Planning Commission (Ward 14) (O 199-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 470
Unwin Rd. (Quincy Ave. to Central Ave.) — secondary name of Geraldine H. Burns Way —
City Planning Commission (Ward 05) (O 476-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 453

493

The City Record

50

April 9, 2014

Urban Community Schools Run — permit — May 10th — Hermes Sports & Events
(Ward 03) (O 435-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 28th St. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 201-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 73rd St. resurfacing (Denison Ave. to Lorain Rd.) — consent — Cuyahoga County (O 194-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Prospect Ave. — encroach into right -of-way — valet parking area — Tower City Avenue
LLC — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1592-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Westside Catholic Center Run — permit — May 31st. — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03)
(O 432-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodhill Rd. resurfacing (Quincy Ave. to Kinsman Rd.) — consent — Cuyahoga
County (O 195-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . 490
. . 470
. . 468
. . 464
. . 490
. . 469

City of Cleveland Bids
Bunker Gear Suits — Department of Port Control — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due May 2,
2014 (advertised 4/9/2014 and 4/16/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeside Avenue Customer Lobby Improvement — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Water — per Ord. 1554-13 — bid due May 2, 2014 (advertised 4/9/2014 and 4/16/2014). . . .
Maintenance and Repair of Detention Basins, Facilities and Structures — Department
of Public Utilities — Division of Water Pollution Control — per Ord. 651-09 — bid
due May 2, 2014 (advertised 4/9/2014 and 4/16/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchase of Recycling Bins — Department of Port Control — Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due April 25, 2014 (advertised 4/9/2014
and 4/16/2014). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 464
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 463

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 463

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 463

City Planning Commission
Bachman Court, S.W. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 198-14) . . . . . .
Un-named Alley North of Denison Ave., and West of West 48th St. — vacate a portion —
Capital Projects Office (Ward 14) (O 199-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Unwin Rd. (Quincy Ave. to Central Ave.) — secondary name of Geraldine H. Burns Way —
Capital Projects Office (Ward 05) (O 476-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 28th St. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 201-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Prospect Ave. — encroach into right -of-way — valet parking area — Tower City Avenue
LLC — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1592-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 470
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 470
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 453
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 470
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 464

Cleveland Clinic Foundation
Minority Men’s Health and Community Health Educational Event — Cleveland Clinic: Minority
Men’s Health Center — agreement — Health Department (Ward 09 CRF) (O 438-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 490

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (CHIA)
Loaned United States government property — Burke Lakefront Airport — Amend Section 139.18
(O 460-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
Port Control — professional services — management and operation of common use facilities
at CHIA (O 466-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 450

Cleveland Housing Network
Energy, water, and sewer conservation service administration — low income home owners —
Cleveland Public Power — Water Division — Water Pollution Control (O 196-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455

Cleveland Metropolitan School District
Educational, recreational and cultural programs — Neighborhood Leadership Institute
(O 337-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455

Cleveland Public Power (CPP)
Energy, water, and sewer conservation service administration — low income home owners —
Cleveland Housing Network — Water Division — Water Pollution Control (O 196-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2012-180 — Customer Care and Billing System —
SourceLink, Ohio LLC (O 302-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455

Codified Ordinances
General Engineering, Architectural, Environmental, Geotechnical Engineering, and Other
Services — Amend Section 129.294 (O 189-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Loaned United States government property — Cleveland Hopkins International and Burke
Lakefront Airport — Amend Section 139.18 (O 460-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rental of Athletic Complexes; Fee — Insurance provisions — Amend Section 131.35 (O 459-14)
Requiring a time period of thirty days or more for roomers or boarders in dwelling houses
in one-family and two-family districts — Amend Section 337.02 and 337.03
(O 493-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

494

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 452

April 9, 2014

The City Record

51

To prohibit the sale and distribution of alternative nicotine products, including
electronic cigarettes, to children — Amend Section 607.15 (O 474-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 451

Collective Bargaining Agreements
Cleveland Scientific Examiners — Fingerprinters (FOP-OLCI) — approve collective
bargaining agreement — Finance Department — Human Resources Department (O 390-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 489
Ohio Nurses Association (ONA) Local 85 — approve collective bargaining agreement —
Finance Department — Human Resources Department (O 464-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 449

Communications
Statement of Cash Management and Investment Policy, 2014 — City Treasury (F 454-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447

Condolences
Boone, Pastor Lawrence W. (R 484-14) . . . . . . . .
Burney, J.D., Ph.D. — Nona Michelle (R 481-14)
Eastern, Edna L. Davis (R 478-14). . . . . . . . . . . .
Florence, William Sanford (R 482-14). . . . . . . . .
McPherson, Margree E. (R 479-14). . . . . . . . . . . .
Schoolfield, II, Rev. Dr. Eugene L. (R 480-14) . .
Scott, David Robert (R 483-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

447
447
447
447
447
447
447

Congratulations
Fleming, Benson — 90th Birthday (R 485-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447
See, Debra Arnall (R 487-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447
Zeta Phi Beta Sorority — 80th Great Lakes Region Leadership Conference (R 486-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447

Contracts
Community service work — City Year — Works Department (O 359-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2012-180 — Customer Care and Billing System —
SourceLink, Ohio LLC (O 302-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General Engineering, Architectural, Environmental, Geotechnical Engineering, and Other
Services — Amend Section 129.294 (O 189-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lou Ritenour Decorators, Inc. dba WR Restoration — professional services — land marking
services for Fifth Church of Christ, Scientist (Ward 15) (O 467-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehabilitation of the Burke Lakefront Airport shoreline — public improvement (O 272-14) . .
Safety Department — agreement — Cuyahoga County — Administration and operation of
the Family Justice Center (O 386-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Security guard services, armed — various recreation facilities (O 273-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Year 2012-B Cleaning and Cement Mortar Lining — Contract: PI2012000000010 — Utilicon
Corporation — Utilities Department (Statement of Final Acceptance) (F 458-14) . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 450
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 471
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 489
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447

Cuyahoga County
Biddulph Rd. resurfacing (Cleveland west corporation line to Pearl Rd.) — consent (O 191-14) . .
Huron Rd. resurfacing (Prospect Ave. to Euclid Ave.) — consent (O 192-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Munn Rd. resurfacing (Rocky River Dr. to Warren Rd .) — consent (O 193-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Safety Department — agreement — Administration and operation of the Family Justice Center
(O 386-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support Cuyahoga County Council’s Voting Rights Law (R 475-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 73rd St. resurfacing (Denison Ave. to Lorain Rd.) — consent (O 194-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodhill Rd. resurfacing (Quincy Ave. to Kinsman Rd.) — consent (O 195-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 465
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 466
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

489
454
468
469

Dues
Global Cleveland — authorize payment of 2013 dues — Finance Department (O 391-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 489

Economic Development Department
Apply and accept HUD 108 Empowerment Zone loan — contract — Victory Midtown for Victory
Bldg., Euclid Ave., 7012 (Ward 05) (O 463-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 449

Encroachments
West Prospect Ave. — right -of-way — valet parking area — Tower City Avenue LLC — Capital
Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1592-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 464

Fees
Rental of Athletic Complexes; Fee — Insurance provisions — Amend Section 131.35 (O 459-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448

495

The City Record

52

April 9, 2014

Finance Department
Cleveland Scientific Examiners — Fingerprinters (FOP-OLCI) — approve collective
bargaining agreement — Human Resources Department (O 390-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Global Cleveland — authorize payment of 2013 dues (O 391-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio Nurses Association (ONA) Local 85 — approve collective bargaining agreement —
Human Resources Department (O 464-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Review City policies and procedures — professional services (O 361-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salary and wage schedules — various classifications — repeal Ord. 1689-11 — Human
Resources Department (O 385-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Statement of Cash Management and Investment Policy, 2014 — City Treasury (F 454-14)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 489
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 489
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 449
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 471
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447

Grants
CAC Mural My Neighborhood Program, 2014 — Cuyahoga Arts and Culture — Works
Department (O 461-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
Minority Health Program, 2014-15 — Health Department — Ohio Commission on Minority
Health (O 462-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 449

Health Department
Minority Health Program, 2014-15 — Ohio Commission on Minority Health — Grants (O 462-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 449
Minority Men’s Health and Community Health Educational Event — Cleveland Clinic: Minority
Men’s Health Center — agreement (Ward 09 CRF) (O 438-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 490

Housing And Urban Development (HUD)
Apply and accept HUD 108 Empowerment Zone loan — contract — Victory Midtown for Victory
Bldg., Euclid Ave., 7012 (Ward 05) (O 463-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 449

Human Resources Department
Cleveland Scientific Examiners — Fingerprinters (FOP-OLCI) — approve collective
bargaining agreement — Finance Department (O 390-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 489
Ohio Nurses Association (ONA) Local 85 — approve collective bargaining agreement —
Finance Department (O 464-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 449
Salary and wage schedules — various classifications — repeal Ord. 1689-11 — Finance
Department (O 385-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472

Insurance
Rental of Athletic Complexes; Fee — Insurance provisions — Amend Section 131.35 (O 459-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448

Lease By Way Of Concession
JIT Services, LLC — North Coast Harbor Transient Marina (O 465-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 450

Liquor Permits
East 185th St., 1035 — stock application (Ward 08) (F 477-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rowley Ave., 1104 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 175-14
(Ward 12) (R 430-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 5510 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 07) (F 457-14) . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 6201 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1060-13 (Ward 07)
(R 472-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodhill Rd., 2603 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 06) (F 456-14) . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 464
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 453
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447

Loans
Apply and accept HUD 108 Empowerment Zone loan — contract — Victory Midtown for
Victory Bldg., Euclid Ave., 7012 (Ward 05) (O 463-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 449

Mayor’s Office
Earth Hour, 2014 — March 29th (R 440-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 464

Oath Of Office
DePenti, Charles L. — Lieutenant — Police Division — Safety Department (F 455-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447

Peddlers
Stephens, Shawn — permit — frozen dessert — mobile permit (Ward 11) (O 431-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 489

496

April 9, 2014

The City Record

53

Permits
Burten, Bell, Carr Development — East 55th St. and Scovill Ave. — May 28 to June 28 —
Ward 5 Family Festival — banners — Capital Projects Office (Ward 05) (O 471-14). . . . . . .
Escape on the Lake — July 12th — Villa Angela-St. Joseph High School (Ward 08) (O 470-14) . .
Morgana Run — June 8th — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 12) (O 469-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio City Run & Crawl — June 14th — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03) (O 433-14) . . . . . . . . .
Race to a Million run — September 27th — Human Arc (Ward 03) (O 434-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sombrero Shuffle Run/Walk — May 3rd — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03) (O 439-14) . . . . .
Stephens, Shawn — frozen dessert — mobile permit (Ward 11) (O 431-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Community Schools Run — May 10th — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03) (O 435-14) . .
West Prospect Ave. — encroach into right -of-way — valet parking area — Tower City Avenue
LLC — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1592-13). . . . . . .
Westside Catholic Center Run — May 31st. — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03) (O 432-14) . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

453
453
453
490
490
491
489
490

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 464
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 490

Police Division
DePenti, Charles L. — oath of office — Lieutenant — Safety Department (F 455-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447

Port Control Department
JIT Services, LLC — Lease By Way of Concession — North Coast Harbor Transient Marina
(O 465-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Loaned United States government property — Cleveland Hopkins International and Burke
Lakefront Airport — Amend Section 139.18 (O 460-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professional services — management and operation of common use facilities at CHIA (O 466-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehabilitation of the Burke Lakefront Airport shoreline — public improvement
contract (O 272-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. 450
. 448
. 450
. 471

Professional Services
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2012-180 — Customer Care and Billing System —
SourceLink, Ohio LLC (O 302-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General Engineering, Architectural, Environmental, Geotechnical Engineering, and Other
Services — Amend Section 129.294 (O 189-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lou Ritenour Decorators, Inc. dba WR Restoration — contract — land marking services for
Fifth Church of Christ, Scientist (Ward 15) (O 467-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — management and operation of common use facilities at CHIA (O 466-14) . . . .
Rehabilitation of the Burke Lakefront Airport shoreline — public improvement
contract (O 272-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Review City policies and procedures — Finance Department (O 361-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Security guard services, armed — various recreation facilities (O 273-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 450
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 450
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 471
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 471
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455

Public Improvements
Biddulph Rd. resurfacing (Cleveland west corporation line to Pearl Rd.) — consent —
Cuyahoga County (O 191-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Huron Rd. resurfacing (Prospect Ave. to Euclid Ave.) — consent — Cuyahoga
County (O 192-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Munn Rd. resurfacing (Rocky River Dr. to Warren Rd .) — consent — Cuyahoga
County (O 193-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehabilitation of the Burke Lakefront Airport shoreline — contract (O 272-14) . . . . . . . .
West 73rd St. resurfacing (Denison Ave. to Lorain Rd.) — consent — Cuyahoga
County (O 194-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodhill Rd. resurfacing (Quincy Ave. to Kinsman Rd.) — consent — Cuyahoga
County (O 195-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 465
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 466
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 471
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 468
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 469

Public Works
CAC Mural My Neighborhood Program, 2014 — Cuyahoga Arts and Culture — Grants (O 461-14) .
Community service work — City Year (O 359-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Educational, recreational and cultural programs — Neighborhood Leadership Institute —
Cleveland Metropolitan School District (O 337-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rental of Athletic Complexes; Fee — Insurance provisions — Amend Section 131.35 (O 459-14) . .
Security guard services, armed — various recreation facilities (O 273-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455

Races
Escape on the Lake — permit — July 12th — Villa Angela-St. Joseph High School (Ward 08)
(O 470-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgana Run — permit — June 8th — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 12) (O 469-14). . . . . . . . . .
Ohio City Run & Crawl — permit — June 14th — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03) (O 433-14)
Race to a Million run — permit — September 27th — Human Arc (Ward 03) (O 434-14). . . . . . . . .
Sombrero Shuffle Run/Walk — permit — May 3rd — Hermes Sports & Events
(Ward 03) (O 439-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

497

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

453
453
490
490

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 491

The City Record

54

April 9, 2014

Urban Community Schools Run — permit — May 10th — Hermes Sports & Events
(Ward 03) (O 435-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 490
Westside Catholic Center Run — permit — May 31st. — Hermes Sports & Events
(Ward 03) (O 432-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 490

Recognition
Caviness, Rev. E. Theophilus (R 490-14) . . . . . . .
Keenon, Judge Una H.R. (retired) (R 489-14) . . .
Perry, Bishop F.E. (R 491-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prentiss, State Senator C.J. (retired) (R 488-14) .
Yarbrough, Clarence (R 492-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

448
448
448
448
448

Resolution of Support
Earth Hour, 2014 — March 29th (R 440-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 464
Support Cuyahoga County Council’s Voting Rights Law (R 475-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 454

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Earth Hour, 2014 — March 29th (R 440-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 464

Safety Department
Agreement — Cuyahoga County — Administration and operation of the Family Justice
Center (O 386-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 489
DePenti, Charles L. — oath of office — Lieutenant — Police Division (F 455-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447

Salaries
Cleveland Scientific Examiners — Fingerprinters (FOP-OLCI) — approve collective
bargaining agreement — Finance Department — Human Resources Department (O 390-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 489
Ohio Nurses Association (ONA) Local 85 — approve collective bargaining agreement —
Finance Department — Human Resources Department (O 464-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 449
Salary and wage schedules — various classifications — repeal Ord. 1689-11 — Finance
Department — Human Resources Department (O 385-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472

Statement Of Work Acceptance
Year 2012-B Cleaning and Cement Mortar Lining — Contract: PI2012000000010 — Utilicon
Corporation — Utilities Department (Statement of Final Acceptance) (F 458-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447

Street Vacation
Bachman Court, S.W. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 03) (O 198-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 470
Un-named Alley North of Denison Ave., and West of West 48th St. — vacate a portion —
Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 14) (O 199-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 470
West 28th St. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(Ward 03) (O 201-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 470

Streets — Name Change
Unwin Rd. (Quincy Ave. to Central Ave.) — secondary name of Geraldine H. Burns Way —
Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 05) (O 476-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 453

Utilities Department
Energy, water, and sewer conservation service administration — low income home owners —
Cleveland Housing Network — Cleveland Public Power — Water Division —
Water Pollution Control (O 196-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2012-180 — Customer Care and Billing System —
SourceLink, Ohio LLC (O 302-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General Engineering, Architectural, Environmental, Geotechnical Engineering, and Other
Services — Amend Section 129.294 (O 189-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Year 2012-B Cleaning and Cement Mortar Lining — Contract: PI2012000000010 — Utilicon
Corporation (Statement of Final Acceptance) (F 458-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447

Ward 01
Boone, Pastor Lawrence W. — Condolence (R 484-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Earth Hour, 2014 — March 29th (R 440-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fleming, Benson — 90th Birthday — Congratulations (R 485-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Lawn Care Program — grass cutting and lawn maintenance for seniors — Court
Community Service — Aging Department (Ward 01 NCF) (O 468-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

498

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 464
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 452

April 9, 2014

The City Record

55

Ward 02
Boone, Pastor Lawrence W. — Condolence (R 484-14). . . . . . . . . .
Caviness, Rev. E. Theophilus — Recognition (R 490-14) . . . . . . .
Keenon, Judge Una H.R. (retired) — Recognition (R 489-14) . . .
Perry, Bishop F.E. — Recognition (R 491-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prentiss, State Senator C.J. (retired) — Recognition (R 488-14) .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

447
448
448
448
448

Ward 03
Bachman Court, S.W. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (O 198-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Huron Rd. resurfacing (Prospect Ave. to Euclid Ave.) — consent — Cuyahoga
County (O 192-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio City Run & Crawl — permit — June 14th — Hermes Sports & Events (O 433-14) . . . . . . . . . .
Race to a Million run — permit — September 27th — Human Arc (O 434-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sombrero Shuffle Run/Walk — permit — May 3rd — Hermes Sports & Events (O 439-14) . . . . . .
To prohibit the sale and distribution of alternative nicotine products, including
electronic cigarettes, to children — Amend Section 607.15 (O 474-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Community Schools Run — permit — May 10th — Hermes Sports & Events (O 435-14) . . .
West 28th St. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (O 201-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Prospect Ave. — encroach into right -of-way — valet parking area — Tower City Avenue
LLC — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (O 1592-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Westside Catholic Center Run — permit — May 31st. — Hermes Sports & Events (O 432-14) . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 470
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

466
490
490
491

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 451
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 490
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 470
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 464
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 490

Ward 04
Boone, Pastor Lawrence W. — Condolence (R 484-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Florence, William Sanford — Condolence (R 482-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scott, David Robert — Condolence (R 483-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodhill Rd. resurfacing (Quincy Ave. to Kinsman Rd.) — consent — Cuyahoga
County (O 195-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Yarbrough, Clarence — Recognition (R 492-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 469
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448

Ward 05
Apply and accept HUD 108 Empowerment Zone loan — contract — Victory Midtown for Victory
Bldg., Euclid Ave., 7012 (O 463-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Boone, Pastor Lawrence W. — Condolence (R 484-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Burten, Bell, Carr Development — East 55th St. and Scovill Ave. — May 28 to June 28 —
Ward 5 Family Festival — banners — Capital Projects Office (O 471-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Earth Hour, 2014 — March 29th (R 440-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support Cuyahoga County Council’s Voting Rights Law (R 475-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Unwin Rd. (Quincy Ave. to Central Ave.) — secondary name of Geraldine H. Burns Way —
Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (O 476-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 449
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 453
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 464
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 454
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 453

Ward 06
Boone, Pastor Lawrence W. — Condolence (R 484-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Burney, J.D., Ph.D. — Nona Michelle — Condolence (R 481-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Schoolfield, II, Rev. Dr. Eugene L. — Condolence (R 480-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support Cuyahoga County Council’s Voting Rights Law (R 475-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodhill Rd. resurfacing (Quincy Ave. to Kinsman Rd.) — consent — Cuyahoga
County (O 195-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodhill Rd., 2603 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 456-14)

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

447
447
447
454

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 469
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447

Ward 07
Earth Hour, 2014 — March 29th (R 440-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eastern, Edna L. Davis — Condolence (R 478-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 5510 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 457-14) . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 6201 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1060-13 — liquor permit
(R 472-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support Cuyahoga County Council’s Voting Rights Law (R 475-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Zeta Phi Beta Sorority — 80th Great Lakes Region Leadership Conference — Congratulations
(R 486-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 464
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 453
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 454
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447

Ward 08
East 185th St., 1035 — stock application — liquor permit (F 477-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447
Escape on the Lake — permit — July 12th — Villa Angela-St. Joseph High School (O 470-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 453

Ward 09
Caviness, Rev. E. Theophilus — Recognition (R 490-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
Keenon, Judge Una H.R. (retired) — Recognition (R 489-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448

499

The City Record

56

April 9, 2014

McPherson, Margree E. — Condolence (R 479-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Minority Men’s Health and Community Health Educational Event — Cleveland Clinic: Minority
Men’s Health Center — agreement — Health Department (Ward 09 CRF) (O 438-14) . . . . .
Perry, Bishop F.E. — Recognition (R 491-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prentiss, State Senator C.J. (retired) — Recognition (R 488-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 490
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448

Ward 10
Caviness, Rev. E. Theophilus — Recognition (R 490-14) . . . . . . .
Earth Hour, 2014 — March 29th (R 440-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Keenon, Judge Una H.R. (retired) — Recognition (R 489-14) . . .
Perry, Bishop F.E. — Recognition (R 491-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prentiss, State Senator C.J. (retired) — Recognition (R 488-14) .
See, Debra Arnall — Congratulations (R 487-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

448
464
448
448
448
447

Ward 11
Earth Hour, 2014 — March 29th (R 440-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 464
Stephens, Shawn — permit — frozen dessert — mobile permit (O 431-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 489
Support Cuyahoga County Council’s Voting Rights Law (R 475-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 454

Ward 12
Boone, Pastor Lawrence W. — Condolence (R 484-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Earth Hour, 2014 — March 29th (R 440-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgana Run — permit — June 8th — Hermes Sports & Events (O 469-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rowley Ave., 1104 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 175-14 —
liquor permit (R 430-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support Cuyahoga County Council’s Voting Rights Law (R 475-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 464
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 453
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 464
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 454

Ward 13
Biddulph Rd. resurfacing (Cleveland west corporation line to Pearl Rd.) — consent —
Cuyahoga County (O 191-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 465
Support Cuyahoga County Council’s Voting Rights Law (R 475-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 454

Ward 14
Un-named Alley North of Denison Ave., and West of West 48th St. — vacate a portion —
Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (O 199-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 470
West 73rd St. resurfacing (Denison Ave. to Lorain Rd.) — consent — Cuyahoga
County (O 194-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 468

Ward 15
Earth Hour, 2014 — March 29th (R 440-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lou Ritenour Decorators, Inc. dba WR Restoration — professional services contract — land
marking services for Fifth Church of Christ, Scientist (O 467-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support Cuyahoga County Council’s Voting Rights Law (R 475-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 73rd St. resurfacing (Denison Ave. to Lorain Rd.) — consent — Cuyahoga County (O 194-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

464
450
454
468

Ward 17
Support Cuyahoga County Council’s Voting Rights Law (R 475-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 454

Ward 18
Munn Rd. resurfacing (Rocky River Dr. to Warren Rd .) — consent — Cuyahoga
County (O 193-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467

Water Division
Energy, water, and sewer conservation service administration — low income home owners —
Cleveland Housing Network — Cleveland Public Power — Water Pollution Control
(O 196-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2012-180 — Customer Care and Billing System —
SourceLink, Ohio LLC (O 302-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455

Water Pollution Control Division (WPC)
Energy, water, and sewer conservation service administration — low income home owners —
Cleveland Housing Network — Cleveland Public Power — Water Division (O 196-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455

500

