The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

October the Fifteenth, Two Thousand and Fourteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

13

Board of Control

13

Civil Service

16

1 Terrell H. Pruitt

Board of Zoning Appeals

28

2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
29

4 Kenneth L. Johnson

Public Notice

31

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

31

6 Mamie J. Mitchell

City of Cleveland Bids

31

7 TJ Dow

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

32

Committee Meetings

36

Index

37

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Jeffrey D. Johnson
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Martin J. Sweeney
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zack Reed ..........................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
44119
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Martin J. Flask, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Special Projects
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Public Affairs
Edward W. Rybka, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY – Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., Director
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Sharon Dumas, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Toinette Parrilla, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Chantez Williams, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Myron Benett, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Ronald J.H. O'Leary, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Eugene R. Miller, (Board Lawyer), Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice
Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary
Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa
Ryan, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth
Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director; Anthony
J. Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Allan Dreyer, Giancarlo Calicchia, Council Member
Terrell H. Pruitt, Robert Strickland, Julie Trott, Robert Vilkas, Donald Petit, Interim
Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Ed Wade – Courtroom 12A
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Chief Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2014

Vol. 101

No. 5262

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2014
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2014-2017
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman
(CHAIR), Mitchell (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Property Committee: K. Johnson
(CHAIR), Sweeney (VICE-CHAIR),
Brancatelli, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, Reed.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley (CHAIR), Cleveland (VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Cimperman, Cummins, Dow, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR),
Brady
(VICEBrancatelli,
Cummins,
CHAIR),
Keane, Mitchell, Polensek.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Zone (VICE-CHAIR),
J.Johnson, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Sweeney.

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:

FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL

Mayor's Appointments Committee:
Sweeney (CHAIR), Brady, Cleveland, Dow, Kelley.

File No. 1354-14.
RE: #8638013. New License Application, D5J. Street Barn, LLC, 7402
Detroit Ave. (Ward 15). Received.

Operations
Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR), Kelley, Keane, Mitchell,
Zone.
Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Keane, Pruitt.

Kelley
Cummins,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, October 13, 2014
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 7:04 p.m. with the
President of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, TJ Dow, Jeffrey D.
Johnson, Kevin J. Kelley, Kenneth
L. Johnson, Martin J. Keane, Mamie
J. Mitchell, Michael D. Polensek,
Terrell H. Pruitt, Zack Reed, Martin
J. Sweeney, and Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief of Regional Development Edward W. Rybka, Chief of
Communications Maureen Harper,
Chief
of
Sustainability
Jenita
McGowan, Chief of Public Affairs
Natoya Walker-Minor, and Directors
Langhenry, Dumas, Smith, Spronz,
Parrilla,
McGrath,
Cox,
Rush,
O’Leary, Southerington, Nichols, Collier, Fumich, Ambroz and Burrows.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
V. Rev. Fr. John Ojaimi, St. George
Antiochian
Orthodox
Christian
Church, Cleveland, Ohio (Ward 3).
Pledge of Allegiance.

File No. 1355-14.
RE: #1189725. Transfer of Ownership Application, D2 D2X D3 D6.
Cheri Caldwell, 6201 St. Clair Ave.
(Ward 10). Received.
File No. 1356-14.
RE: #1189725. New License Application, D3A. Cheri Caldwell, 6201 St.
Clair Ave. (Ward 10). Received.
File No. 1357-14.
RE: #9191895. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A D6.
Valerie Enterprises, LLC, 5517 Memphis Ave. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 1358-14.
RE: #4437700. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1 C2. Kahlon
Foods, Inc., 12520 Lorain Ave. (Ward
16). Received.
File No. 1359-14.
RE: #7702571. Stock Application,
C2 C2X. Samia Inc., 863-871 East 93rd
St. (Ward 9). Received.
File No. 1360-14.
RE: #9159165. Stock Application,
C1 C2. United Convenient Market,
Inc., 6206 Broadway Ave. (Ward 12).
Received.
File No. 1361-14.
RE: #65497770001. Stock Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A. 19610 S. Waterloo, Inc., 19800 S. Waterloo Rd.
(Ward 8). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1373-14—Lawrence Wesley Wiggins, Sr.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS

MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Brady, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Mitchell.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating

OATHS OF OFFICE

10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone
(CHAIR),
Conwell
(VICECHAIR), Cimperman, Dow, K.Johnson, Keane, Polensek.

File No. 1353-14.
Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., for
Director of the Office of Equal
Opportunity. Received.

10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Dow
(VICE-CHAIR), Conwell, J. Johnson,
K.Johnson, Reed, Sweeney.

File No. 1362-14.
Sharon Dumas for Interim Director of the Department of Public Utilities. Received.

1473

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1374-14—Ronald M. Berkman.
No.
Res.
Perkins.

1375-14—Michael

W.

RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1376-14—Black Women’s
Political Action Committee.

The City Record

4
COMMEMORATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No.
Reed, Sr.

1377-14—Charles

Henry

APPRECIATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1378-14—Maureen Harper.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1345-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Department of Health and the
Academy of Educational Development for the 2015-2017 Federal AIDS
Prevention Program; and to enter into
contracts with various agencies to
implement the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $2,613,900, and any other
funds as they become available during the grant term, from the Ohio
Department of Health and the Academy of Educational Development, to
conduct the 2015-2017 Federal AIDS
Prevention Program, for the purposes
in the summary and according thereto; that the Director of Public Health
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes in the executive summary
for the grant.
Section 2. That the executive summary for the grant, File No. 1345-14-A,
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, as presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
the public hearing on this legislation,
is approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts to implement
the program as described in the summary contained in the file with the
following agencies, in the following
approximate annual amounts:
Agency

Amount

AIDS Taskforce of Greater
Cleveland
$ 65,000
Cleveland Treatment Center
106,400
Free Clinic of Greater
Cleveland
71,360
MetroHealth Medical Center
130,000
Northeast Ohio Neighborhood
Health Services, Inc. (“NEON”)
60,000
Planned Parenthood of
Greater Ohio
75,000
Recovery Resources
56,000
Cleveland PRIDE
1,500
TOTAL
$ 565,260

In addition, the approximate sum of
$107,543 is annually appropriated to
the Department of Public Health for
administrative costs of implementing
this program and the approximate
sum of $198,497 is appropriated to the
Department of Public Health for the
operation of the Disease Intervention
Specialist Services Program and services conducted by the Department.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term and shall have the
authority to enter into one or more
contracts with additional agencies or
entities as approved by the grantors.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 6. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 7. That the cost of the contracts authorized in this ordinance
shall be paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds
accepted under this ordinance.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees on
Health and Human Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 1346-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Department of Health for the
2014-15 Healthy Weight Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $15,000, and any other
funds that may become available during the grant term from the Ohio
Department of Health to conduct the
2014-15 Healthy Weight Program;
that the Director is authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
the
purposes
appropriated
for
described in the executive summary
for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the executive summary for the grant, presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
a public hearing on this legislation

1474

October 15, 2014
and set forth in File No. 1346-14-A, is
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, is approved in all
respects, and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to extend the
term of the grant during the grant
term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(B) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process. The contracts will be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited any grant
funds accepted under this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees on
Health and Human Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 1347-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Department of Health for the
2015-2017 STD Control Prevention Program; authorizing the Director to
enter into contracts with various
agencies or entities to implement the
grant; and to enter into an agreement
with the Ohio Department of Health
for the City to receive payments from
the Medicaid program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $393,864, and any other
funds as they become available during the grant term, from the Ohio
Department of Health, to conduct the
2014 STD Control Prevention Program, for the purposes in the summary and budget and according thereto;
that the Director of Public Health is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes in the summary for the
grant.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, File No. 1347-14-A, made a part
of this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
as presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in

October 15, 2014
all respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with various
agencies or entities to implement the
grant as described in the file.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
an agreement with the Ohio Department of Health for the City to receive
payments from the Medicaid programs to implement this ordinance.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to charge and
accept fees from participants of this
program and to deposit those fees into
a revolving fund which will be used to
provide additional materials, equipment, supplies, and services under the
program described in the file, and the
funds are appropriated for that purpose.
Section 7. That in addition, the
approximate sum of $33,593 is annually appropriated to the Department of
Public Health for administrative
costs of implementing this program
and the approximate sum of $97,695 is
appropriated to the Department of
Public Health for the operation of the
Disease Intervention Specialist Services Program and services conducted by the Department.
Section 8. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 9. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 10. That the costs of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds, Medicaid payments
accepted under this ordinance, and
from the fund or funds to which are
credited any fees received under this
program.
Section 11. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees on
Health and Human Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 1348-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to apply to the District
One Public Works Integrating Committee for state funding for the rehabilitation of U.S. Route 42, Scranton

The City Record
Road/Carter Road, Clark Avenue,
and East 152nd Street; to apply for
and accept grants from various entities for the improvements; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
enter into contracts and agreements
to design and construct the improvements and other agreements needed
for the improvements; and authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to acquire, accept, and
record for right-of-way purposes real
property and easements necessary to
make the improvement.
Whereas, under Article VIII, Section 2k of the Ohio Constitution, the
State of Ohio is authorized to issue
bonds and other obligations of the
State for the purpose of financing
public infrastructure capital improvements of political subdivisions as designated by law; and
Whereas, under Section 164.03 of
the Revised Code, the District One
Public Work Integrating Committee
has been created to evaluate applications for state financing of capital
improvement projects of local subdivisions in Cuyahoga County; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Mayor is authorized to apply to the District One Public Works Integrating Committee for
state funding for the following infrastructure capital improvements:
1. U.S. Route 42 (Pearl Road) from
Brookpark Road to Interstate 71;
2. Scranton Road/Carter Road from
Fairfield Avenue to Columbus Road;
3. Clark Avenue from Lorain
Avenue to West 41st Street;
4. East 152nd Street from Woodworth Road to Waterloo Road
Section 2. That the Mayor is authorized to apply to the District One Public Works Integrating Committee for
state
funding
to
obtain
credit
enhancements and loan assistance in
support of the city’s bonds issued for
bridge and road improvements.
Section 3. That the Mayor is authorized to accept one or more grants
from the Ohio Public Works Commission, acting by and through its Director, and to apply for and accept grants
or other funding from other public or
private entities, to finance the public
improvements of rehabilitation of US
Route 42, Scranton/Carter Roads,
Clark Avenue, and East 152nd Street,
more fully described in Section 1 of
this ordinance (the “Improvement”);
that the Mayor is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in this ordinance.
Section 4. That, provided the City
sells bonds in 2015 authorized for the
purposes of this ordinance, the City of
Cleveland is obligated to provide cash
matching funds in the amount of the
local share, in the approximate aggregate amount of $4,937,837.
Section 5. That, provided the City
sells bonds in 2015 authorized for the
purposes of this ordinance, the Director of Capital Projects is authorized
to employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of supplementing the regularly

1475

5
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional design,
engineering and construction services necessary for the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Capital Projects from
a list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Capital Projects for the purpose of compiling a
list. The compensation to be paid for
the services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract or contracts shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director
of Capital Projects and certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 6. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement as described in
this ordinance, for the Office of Capital Projects, by one or more contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the Improvement.
Section 7. That, provided the City
sells bonds in 2015 authorized for the
purposes of this ordinance, the Director of Capital Projects is authorized
to enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the Improvement with
the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a
unit basis for the Improvement, provided, however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of the Improvement may be treated as a separate improvement, and
each, or any combination, of the
trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract on a unit
basis.
Section 8. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept
cash contributions from public or private entities, NEORSD, and GCRTA for
infrastructure restoration costs associated with relocating, rehabilitating or
reconstructing utility infrastructure
for the Improvement and costs associated with implementing green infrastructure features to address combined
sewer overflows. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into agreements with the entities for
this purpose.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with private
utility companies to pay charges for
the installation of underground lines
in connection with the Improvement.
Section 10. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire, accept, and record for rightof-way purposes any real property
and easements necessary to make the
Improvement. The consideration to be
paid for the property and easements
shall not exceed fair market value to
be determined by the Board of Control.
Section 11. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute,
on behalf of the City, all documents
necessary to acquire, accept, and
record the property and easements
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers, and all other costs necessary for the acquisition of the property and easements.

6
Section 12. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into one or more Local Project Administration agreements with the Ohio
Department of Transportation to fund
and construct the Improvement.
Section 13. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply for
and accept Federal Transportation
Enhancement grant funds from Federal Highway Administration, to construct the Improvement. The Director
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in this ordinance.
Section 14. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply to
NOACA to pursue economic assistance, on behalf of the City of Cleveland, for the Improvement.
Section 15. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept
the funds from NOACA for the
Improvement, and those funds are
appropriated for the purposes stated
in this ordinance.
Section 16. That the Mayor or Director of Capital Projects is authorized
to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds
under this ordinance; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the ordinance.
Section 17. That the cost of the contracts, payments, property acquisition, cash matches, and other expenditures authorized shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited any grant proceeds authorized
under this ordinance, the fund or
funds to which are credited any funds
received under the Local Project
Administration agreement, the fund
or funds to which are credited any
funds secured by NOACA, fund or
funds to which are credited any proceeds from the sale of 2015 bonds if
authorized by this Council and sold
for this purpose, from cash contributions accepted and appropriated
under this ordinance, and from any
other funds approved by the Director
of Finance for this purpose.
Section 18. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.
Ord. No. 1349-14.
By Council Members Reed, K. Johnson and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
County of Cuyahoga for the resurfacing of Turney Road from Warner
Road to the Cleveland south corporation line; authorizing the Director of
Capital Projects to enter into any relative agreements; to apply for and
accept an allocation of County Motor
Vehicle License Tax Funds for the
improvement; and authorizing the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire, accept, and record for
right-of-way purposes any real property and easements necessary to
make the improvement.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Consent. That it is
declared to be in the public interest
that the consent of the City of Cleveland is given to the County of Cuyahoga (the “County”) to construct the
following improvement under plans,
specifications,
and
estimates
approved by the County: resurfacing
of Turney Road from Warner Road to
the Cleveland south corporation line
(County ID No. 1082) (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. Cooperation
(a) That the City will cooperate
with the County in the Improvement.
(b) That the County will arrange
for the preparation of construction
plans and specifications, including
necessary engineering reports for the
Improvement, under Current Cuyahoga County standards for construction of County roads and bridges.
(c) That the County will arrange
for the supervision and administration of the construction project.
(d) That the City agrees to assume
and contribute 100% of the cost of any
items included in the construction
contract at the request of the City,
which are determined by the County
to be not eligible or made necessary
by the Improvement.
Section 3. Funding
(a) That the City agrees to cooperate with the County in the cost of the
Improvement by an allocation from
the County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Fund; and by applying to the
County to use the License Tax Funds
for the Improvement.
(b) That if funds administered by
the Ohio Public Works Commission
are used for the Improvement, the
amount of the funds shall be applied
to the County’s share of the costs specified in this ordinance.
Section 4. Maintenance. That upon
completion of the Improvement, the
City will keep the highway open to
traffic at all times; and
(a) Maintain the Improvement in
accordance with the provisions of the
statutes relating thereto and make
ample financial provisions for the
maintenance;
(b) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstructions in a manner satisfactory to the County and
hold the right-of-way inviolate for
public highway purposes and permit
no signs, posters, billboards, roadside
stands or other private installations
within the right-of-way limits;
(c) That the County shall continue
to maintain the structural elements of
any bridge (defined as a structure
with a span of twenty feet or greater)
located within the limits of the
Improvement under the applicable
sections of the Revised Code; and
(d) After construction of the
Improvement is complete, the City
agrees to follow and maintain postconstruction Best Management Practices as outlined in the Municipal
Storm Water Permit that is filed with
the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency.
Section 5. Traffic. That on completion of the Improvement, the City will
keep the highway open to traffic at
all times; and
(a) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices conforming to the
Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices on the Improvement in

1476

October 15, 2014
compliance with the provisions of Section 4511.11 of the Revised Code and
other related sections of the Revised
Code;
(b) That the street or highway
within the limits of the Improvement
is designated a through highway as
provided in division (A)(6) of Section
4511.07 of the Revised Code;
(c) That stop signs affecting the
movement of traffic on the street or
highway within the Improvement
shall be removed, and no stop signs
shall be erected on same except at its
intersection with another through
highway where traffic does not warrant the installation of a traffic control signal but where the warrants for
a “Four-Way Stop” as provided in the
above-mentioned Manual are met;
(d) That no rule or regulation shall
be enacted restricting the use of the
Improvement by any class of vehicle
or vehicle load permitted by the
Revised Code to use a public highway. Any existing rule or regulation
so restricting road usage is rescinded;
and
(e) The City shall regulate parking
in the following manner: Prohibit
parking under Section 4511.66 of the
Revised Code unless otherwise controlled by local ordinance or resolution.
Section 6. Right-of-Way
(a) That all existing street and
public right-of-way within the City
which is necessary for the Improvement shall be made available.
(b) That in the event any additional right-of-way is required, the City
will arrange for the acquisition.
Section 7. Utilities
(a) That the City will make
arrangements
with
and
obtain
arrangements from all privatelyowned public utility companies
whose lines or structures will be
affected by the Improvement, and the
companies have agreed to make any
and all necessary arrangements in
such a manner as to be clear of any
construction called for by the plans
for the Improvement, and the companies have agreed to make necessary
rearrangements immediately after
notification by the City.
(b) That the County will participate in the costs of alterations of governmentally-owned utility facilities
which come within the provisions of
Section 8204 (Utility Reimbursement
Eligibility) of the Ohio Department of
Transportation’s Real Estate Policies
and Procedures Manual to the same
extent that it participates in the other
costs of the Improvement, provided,
however, that such participation will
not extend to any additions or betterments of existing facilities.
(c) That it is agreed that the City
shall, at its own expense, make all
rearrangements of water mains, service, lines, fire hydrants, valve boxes,
sanitary sewers, or other city-owned
utilities and/or appurtenances thereto which do not comply with the Provisions of Section 8204 (Utility Reimbursement Eligibility) of the Ohio
Department of Transportation’s Real
Estate Policies and Procedures Manual, whether inside or outside the corporate limits, as may be necessary to
conform to the Improvement.
(d) That the construction, reconstruction, and/or arrangement of all
utilities shall be done in a manner as
not to interfere unduly with the operation of the contractor constructing
the Improvement, and all backfilling
of trenches made necessary by utility

October 15, 2014
rearrangements shall be performed
under the provisions of the ODOT
Construction and Material Specifications.
Section 8. Miscellaneous
(a) That if the County is formally
requested by ordinance of this Council to include the construction of sanitary sewers, water lines, area sewers
(drainage of area surrounding the
Improvement), sidewalks, alternate
bid items, or other items in the
Improvement that are in addition to
those now existing and not provided
for elsewhere in this ordinance, the
County will do so, provided that the
construction meets with the approval
of the County and the City involved in
this Improvement; and that the City
agrees to pay, or make arrangements
for the payment of the cost of the construction, cost of preliminary and
design engineering, and construction
supervision.
(b) For purposes of this ordinance,
the agent for the County and liaison
officer shall be the County Engineer
of Cuyahoga County, Ohio, and/or
such members of his staff as he may
designate.
(c) That the City agrees to conduct
this transaction by electronic means
and agrees that all documents requiring County signatures may be executed by electronic means, and that the
electronic signatures affixed by the
County to the documents shall have
the same legal effect as if that signature was manually affixed to a paper
version of the document. The City
also agrees on behalf of the aforementioned entities and persons to be
bound by the provisions of Chapters
304 and 1306 of the Revised Code as
they pertain to electronic transactions, and to comply with the electronic signature policy of the County.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
agreements necessary to complete the
Improvement.
Section 10. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply to
the County for approval to use County
Motor Vehicle License Tax funds to
pay for the Improvement, to accept
the funds and to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes set
forth above.
Section 11. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire, accept, and record for rightof-way purposes any real property
and easements as is necessary to
make the improvements described in
this ordinance. The consideration to
be paid for the property and easements shall not exceed fair market
value to be determined by the Board
of Control.
Section 12. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City all documents
necessary to acquire, accept, and
record the property and easements
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers, and all other costs necessary for the acquisition of the property and easements.
Section 13. That this Council
requests the County to proceed with
the Improvement.
Section 14. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit to the County three (3) certified copies of this

The City Record
ordinance immediately on its taking
effect.
Section 15. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.
Ord. No. 1350-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the general fund to receive and
use revenue from tax remittances collected by Cleveland Public Power during the years 2015 and 2016 and transfer 50% of tax receipts collected in
both years back to Cleveland Public
Power.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 91098, passed February 14, 2000, this
Council authorized, among other
things, that Cleveland Public Power
shall receive from the general fund
an amount equal to eighty-five percent (85%) of the tax remittances due
the City collected by Cleveland Public
Power under Section 5727.81 of the
Revised Code; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 188602, passed October 28, 2002, this Council directed that the general fund
shall retain all of the tax remittances
collected by Cleveland Public Power
during 2003; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 208803, passed October 27, 2003, this Council directed that the general fund
shall retain all of the tax remittances
collected by Cleveland Public Power
during 2004; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 219704, passed January 10, 2005, this Council directed that the general fund
shall retain all of the tax remittances
collected by Cleveland Public Power
during 2004; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 2068-05,
passed November 21, 2005, repealed a
portion of Ordinance No. 1886-02 relating to the increase in incremental
charges and collection of tax remittances described in Ordinance No. 91098; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 15806, passed March 20, 2006, this Council
directed that the general fund shall
retain all of the tax remittances collected by Cleveland Public Power during 2005; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 184206, passed February 5, 2007, this Council directed that the general fund
shall retain all of the tax remittances
collected by Cleveland Public Power
during 2006; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 176807, passed December 10, 2007, this
Council directed that the general
fund shall retain 50% of the tax remittances collected by Cleveland Public
Power during 2007, and 50% of the tax
remittances shall be transferred to
Cleveland Public Power on an annual
basis; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 124809, passed September 28, 2009, this
Council directed that the General
Fund retains all of the tax remittances collected by Cleveland Public
power during 2009 and 2010; and

1477

7
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 156010, passed November 29, 2010, this
Council directed the retention and use
of revenue by the general fund from
tax remittance collected by Cleveland
Public Power during the years 2011
and 2012; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 19313, passed March 18, 2013, this Council
directed the retention and use of revenue by the general fund from tax
remittance collected by Cleveland
Public Power during the years 2013
and 2014; and
Whereas, legislative authority is
necessary to clarify that the general
fund shall receive all tax remittances
collected by Cleveland Public Power
during 2015 and 2016 and transfer 50%
of the tax receipts collected in 2015
and 2016 back to Cleveland Public
Power; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That as an exception to
Ordinance No. 910-98, passed February 14, 2000, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1886-02, passed October 28, 2002,
partially repealed by Ordinance No.
2068-05, passed November 21, 2005;
Ordinance No. 2088-03, passed October
27, 2003; Ordinance No. 2197-04, passed
January 10, 2005; Ordinance No. 158-06,
passed March 20, 2006; Ordinance No.
1842-06, passed February 5, 2007; Ordinance No. 1768-07, passed December
10, 2007; Ordinance No. 1248-09, passed
September 28, 2009; Ordinance No.
1560-10, passed November 29, 2010; and
Ordinance No. 193-13, passed March 18,
2013, the general fund shall receive
all tax remittances collected under
Section 5727.81 of the Revised Code
during calendar years 2015 and 2016
and shall transfer 50% of the tax
receipts collected in 2015 and 2016
back to Cleveland Public Power.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1351-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to Positively Cleveland
to encroach into the public right-ofway within the downtown area by
installing, using, and maintaining 4
way-finding signs and electric duct
banks.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit, revocable at the will of Council, to Positively Cleveland, 334
Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, OH 44114
(“Permittee”), to encroach into the
public right-of-way within the downtown area by installing, using, and

8
maintaining 4 way-finding signs and
electric duct banks, at the following
locations:
CP01 In front of Terminal Tower
CP12 South side of Euclid Avenue
and Public Square East Roadway
CP13 South side of Euclid Avenue
and in front of Visitors Center
CP14 N.E. corner East 4th Street
and Prospect Avenue
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
The exact placement of the signs
and duct banks at the above-listed
locations will be determined and
approved by Director of Capital Projects in consultation with the Manager of Engineering and Construction
after street-opening permit applications are submitted to Engineering
and Construction
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Capital Projects. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans and
specifications and each exact location to be approved by the Manager of
Engineering and Construction. That
Permittee shall obtain all other
required permits, including but not
limited to Building Permits, before
installing the encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
a prospective Permittee has properly
indemnified the City against any loss
that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
to
the
encroachment
entry
location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
Ord. No. 1352-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of replacing existing
underground lift stations with aboveground stations and other related
improvements including sewer work;
and authorizing the Director of Port
Control to enter into one or more public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the

The City Record
public improvement of replacing
existing underground lift stations
with above-ground stations and other
related
improvements
including
sewer work, for the Department of
Port Control, by one or more contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into one
or more contracts for the making of
the public improvement with the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the improvement, provided, however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the
improvement may be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any
combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate
contract on a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to apply and pay
for permits, licenses, or other authorizations required by any regulatory
agency or public authority to permit
performance of the work authorized
by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement and other expenditures
authorized shall be paid from Fund
No. 60 SF 001, Request No. RQS 3001,
RL 2014-112.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Transportation, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1366-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to St.
Wendelin Parish to stretch a banner
on Columbus Avenue, adjacent to the
parish, for the period from October 15,
2014 to November 14, 2014, inclusive,
publicizing church events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding the
provision of Section 623.13 of the Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of the Department
of Capital Projects is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to
St. Wendelin Parish to stretch a banner on Columbus Avenue, adjacent to
the parish, for the period from October 15, 2014 to November 14, 2014,
inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Capital
Projects, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so as
not to interfere with any sign erected
and maintained under the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner of any pole from
which a banner will be hung must be

1478

October 15, 2014
obtained prior to issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall
be printed or permitted on said banner and said banner shall be removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1367-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for The Cleveland Turkey
Trot, on November 27, 2014, sponsored
by Hermes Sports & Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
The Cleveland Turkey Trot, on
November 27, 2014, start: Lakeside &
East 6th; Lakeside west to West 3rd;
West 3rd north to Erieside; Erieside
east to East 9th; East 9th south to
Lakeside; Lakeside east to East 13th;
East 13th south to Hamilton; Hamilton east to East 38th; East 38th south
to St. Clair; St. Clair west to West 3rd;
West 3rd north to Lakeside; Lakeside
east to East 6th—FINISH; provided
that the applicant sponsor shall meet
all the requirements of Section 411.05
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed
as determined by the Chief of Police
and safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants in
the event. Said permit shall further
provide that the City of Cleveland
shall be fully indemnified from any
and all liability resulting from the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1368-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for The Pigskin Classic, on
November 29, 2014, sponsored by Hermes Sports & Events.

October 15, 2014
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
The Pigskin Classic, on November 29,
2014, start: Old River Road at the
Odean; Old River west to Robert Lockwood Dr.; Robert Lockwood west to
Columbus; Columbus south to Carter
east to Scranton; Scranton south to
Train; turn around, Scranton north to
Carter; Carter west to Center; Center
west to Merwin; Merwin north
through city park to Old River Road—
FINISH LINE; provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary in
order to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and all
liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1369-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for The Running the Bridge,
on October 19, 2014, sponsored by The
Harness Cycle Shop.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
The Running the Bridge, on October
19, 2014, start: Detroit & West 29th;
Detroit east to West 25th, West 25th
south to Lorain; Lorain east over
Lorain/Carnegie Bridge on Ontario;
Ontario north to Huron; Huron north
to Superior; Superior west across Veterans Memorial Bridge to Detroit;
Detroit west to West 29th—-FINISH
LINE; provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order to
protect the participants in the event.
Said permit shall further provide that
the City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability
resulting from the issuance of the
same, to the extent and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.

The City Record
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1370-14.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Professional
School of Cosmetology for the Cosmetology Training Program through the
use of Ward 7 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement with the Professional
School of Cosmetology for the Cosmetology Training Program for the public purpose of providing education,
training and employment in the field
of cosmetology for Cleveland residents through the use of Ward 7 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $10,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1372-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
accept certain easement interests
from Alexander R. Frondorf and
Jason R. Bristol for a public sidewalk.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Director of Capital Projects is
authorized to accept certain easement

1479

9
rights from Alexander R. Frondorf
and Jason R. Bristol, in and to the
premises hereinafter described for a
public sidewalk at 3300 Clinton
Avenue, at no cost to the City of Cleveland, and more fully described as follows:
Legal description of a portion of
3300 Clinton Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44113 for the use of a public sidewalk
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Sublot No.
37 in the Taylor Farm Allotment of
part of the Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 49, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 2 of Maps,
Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Records,
and being further bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at a 5/8 inch iron pin at
the intersection of the Northerly
right-of-way line of Clinton Avenue,
66 feet wide, and the Westerly rightof-way of West 33rd Street, 16 feet
wide, also known as being the Southeasterly corner of land owned by
Jason R. Bristol & Alexander R. Frondorf, Permanent Parcel Numbers 00326-029 & 003-26-030;
Thence South 68°50'00" West along
said Northerly right-of-way line of
Clinton Avenue a distance of 22.5 feet
to a point and the Principle Place of
Beginning;
Thence continuing South 68°50'00"
West along Northerly right-of-way
line of Clinton Avenue a distance of
30.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 21°11'41" West a distance of 4.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 68°50'00" East a distance of 30.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 21°11'41" East a distance of 4.00 feet to the Principle
Place of Beginning and containing
120.39 square feet of land, as
described by Stephen Hovancsek &
Associates, Inc., in October, 2014
under the direction of Ryan A.
Snezek, Ohio Registered Surveyor No.
8495, State of Ohio, be the same more
or less but subject to all legal highways.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That the Director of the
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects is
authorized to execute all documents
on behalf of the City of Cleveland necessary to accept certain rights within
the premises.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1363-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to 5106
Franklin Avenue.

10
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from Ali S. Alawi,
DBA Dairy Deli, 5106 Franklin
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number 00895050005 to A &
A, Inc., DBA Ohio City Deli, 5106
Franklin Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent Number 0007629;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit from Ali S. Alawi, DBA Dairy
Deli, 5106 Franklin Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number
00895050005 to A & A, Inc., DBA Ohio
City Deli, 5106 Franklin Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent
Number 0007629; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeand
diately
upon
its
adoption
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.

The City Record
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1364-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 1293 West 9th Street and repealing Resolution No. 921-13, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A
and D6 Liquor Permit to Tomo
Hibachi Restaurant and Lounge,
LLC, 1293 West 9th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Numbers 8980087, 8980087-0003, 89800870004, 8980087-0005 by Resolution No.
921-13 adopted by the Council on
July 10, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit to Tomo Hibachi
Restaurant and Lounge, LLC, 1293
West 9th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44113, Permanent Numbers 8980087,
8980087-0003, 8980087-0004, 89800870005 be, and the same are hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 921-13, containing such objection, be and the
same are hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1365-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit at 4506 Lorain Avenue, 1st
floor and repealing Resolution No.
1015-14, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Lorain
Avenue Super Mercabo, Inc., DBA
Ohio City Mini Mart, 4506 Lorain
Avenue, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent No. 5262570 by Resolution No. 1015-14 adopted by the
Council on August 20, 2014; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and

1480

October 15, 2014
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit to Lorain Avenue
Super Mercabo, Inc., DBA Ohio City
Mini Mart, 4506 Lorain Avenue, 1st
floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent No. 5262570, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1015-14, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1371-14.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 756 East
200th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for a New C1
Liquor Permit at Salaam & Lean,
Inc., DBA East Mini Mart, 756 East
200th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119,
Permanent Number 7677880; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.

October 15, 2014
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Salaam & Lean, Inc.,
DBA East Mini Mart, 756 East 200th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent Number 7677880; and requests
the Superintendent of Liquor Control
to set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1379-14.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of stock of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to 6206 Broadway
Avenue N/end.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for a transfer
of stock of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at United Convenient Market,
Inc., DBA Broadway Food Mart, 6206
Broadway Avenue N/end, Cleveland,
Ohio
44127,
Permanent
Number
9159165; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

The City Record
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a transfer of
stock of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at
United Convenient Market, Inc., DBA
Broadway Food Mart, 6206 Broadway
Avenue N/end, Cleveland, Ohio 44127,
Permanent Number 9159165, and
requests the Superintendent of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1380-14.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of liquor license of a
D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to 5379 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of liquor license of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Lucic Enterprises, Inc., DBA Lucics,
1204 Old River Road Mezzanine &
Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 5337947 to Lucic Enterprises, Inc., DBA Lucics, 5379 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
Permanent Number 53369470001; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of

1481

11
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit from Lucic Enterprises, Inc., DBA Lucics, 1204 Old
River Road Mezzanine & Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number
5337947 to Lucic Enterprises, Inc.,
DBA Lucics, 5379 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent
Number 53369470001; and requests the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1126-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to apply for
and accept one or more grants from
the Western Reserve Area Agency on
Aging for 2015 Western Reserve Area
Agency on Aging Programs, including Supportive Services and Aging
and Disability Resource Center Programs; and authorizing the director
to accept gifts from any public or private entity for the purposes of this
grant.
Approved by Directors of Aging,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Health and Human
Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

12
Ord. No. 1127-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
Cuyahoga County for the 2013 State
Homeland Security Program – GAP;
and authorizing the purchase by one
or more written standard and requirement purchase contracts needed to
implement the grant, for the Division
of Police, Department of Public Safety.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1128-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
employ one or more companies to provide equipment, video management,
storage and security solutions, software, and training needed to implement a body-worn camera system for
the Division of Police, including managed storage, warranty, upgrades,
replacement equipment, maintenance
and other related services for a period
up to five years; and to enter into various written standard purchase and
requirement contracts for the necessary items of materials, equipment,
supplies, and services.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1129-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts with
LeadsOnline LLC for professional services necessary to provide access to
an on-line automated scrap materials
and used goods transaction information management system, including
on-going training and support services, for a period of one year, with a
one-year option to renew, exercisable
by the Director of Public Safety.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1188-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to enter into
one or more contracts with Acme
Exterminating Company, Inc. for professional services necessary to conduct the Bed Bug Assistance program.
Approved by Directors of Aging,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Health and Human
Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1189-14.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to maintain and
repair heating, ventilation, and air
conditioning systems, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control for a term of two years, with
two one-year options to renew, the
first of which shall require additional
legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1223-14.
By Council Members Cummins,
Cimperman, K. Johnson and Kelley
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 9 of Ordinance No. 623-14,
passed June 9, 2014, relating to the
public improvement of resurfacing
West 25th Street from I-71 to Detroit
Avenue.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1224-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more standard and requirement contracts for
the purchase, lease, or lease with
option to purchase, of various on-road
vehicles and off-road equipment,
cabs, bodies, and accessories, equipment and other aftermarket items
necessary to equip the vehicles authorized for their intended purposes,
including
vehicle
rehabilitation,
training, and inspections, as needed,
for the various divisions of City government, for a period of one year.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal
Services and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1247-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into one or more concession
agreements for the operation of a
first-class food and beverage service
at the Cleveland City Hall Cafeteria,
for a period not to exceed two years,
with a one-year option to renew, exercisable by the Director of Public
Works.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal
Services and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

1482

October 15, 2014
Ord. No. 1248-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into one or more concession
agreements for the operation of a
first-class food and beverage service
in connection with renting the Rotunda in City Hall and for marketing the
rental of the Rotunda for catered
events, for a period not to exceed two
years, with a one-year option to
renew, exercisable by the Director of
Public Works.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal
Services and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1251-14.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 35 and 41 of Ordinance No.
385-14, passed March 31, 2014, as
amended by Ordinance No. 739-14,
passed July 16, 2014, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1252-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 608-14,
passed June 2, 2014, relating to an
agreement with the Cuyahoga County
Solid Waste District to accept funding in support of the Department of
Public
Safety’s
Environmental
Crimes Task Force.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1421-12.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of land on the southwest
corner of Dolloff Road and Ansen
Ave. from Two Family Residential
to Open Space and Recreation (Map
Change Number 2408).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on
City Planning, when amended, as
follows:
1. In the title, in line 3, strike
“Ansen” and insert “Anson”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

October 15, 2014
Ord. No. 1422-12.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An ordinance changing the Use District of land on the southwest side of
Track Road between Nursery Street
and House Avenue to Two Family
Residential and a 1 Height District
(Map Change Number 2409).
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1426-12.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An ordinance changing the Use and
Area Districts of land on both sides of
E. 49th Street between Jewett Avenue
south to the railroad to Two Family
Residential District and a ‘B’ Area
District (Map Change Number 2414).
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1427-12.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Area Districts of land on the
south side of Hamm Avenue at the
intersection of E. 52nd Street to Two
Family Residential and a ‘B’ Area
District (Map Change Number 2415).
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1469-12.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An ordinance changing the Use
Districts of lands located on the
south side of Track Road west of E.
55 St. to Sawtell Rd. to Residence
Industry
(Map
Change
Number
2425).
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 858-14.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An ordinance changing the Use,
area and Height Districts of lands
located on the northeast corner of
West
135th
Street
and
Lorain
Avenue to Multi-Family Residential,
a ‘D’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height
District (Map Change No. 2492).
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 994-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance establishing new
mapped setbacks on parcels located
on the north side of Marquardt

The City Record
Avenue between West 7th Street and
West 5th Street as shown on the
attached map (Map Change No.
2503).
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord, No. 1199-14,
By Council Member Cimperman,
An ordinance establishing a new 6
foot mapped front setback on parcels
located on the west side of West 18th
Street south of Lorain Avenue as
shown on the attached map (Map
Change No. 2501).
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1200-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance establishing a new 6
foot mapped front setback on parcels
located on the east side of West 19th
Street south of Lorain Avenue as
shown on the attached map (Map
Change No. 2501).
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
LAID ON THE TABLE
On the motion of Council Member
Brady, the rules were suspended and
the legislation just read be placed
on the table.
Seconded by Council
Member Mitchell.
Res. No. 1232-12.
By Council Members Cummins,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
West 51st Place.
Without objection, Ordinance No.
1232-12 was relieved of further consideration of all committees and laid on
the table pursuant to the Rules of
Council.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 16.
Nays 0. Ordinance No. 1232-12. Laid on
the Table.
Ord. No. 1492-13.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Miller and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to name
the un-named park roadway known
as the Ansel Road ramp from Martin Luther King Jr Drive to Ansel
Road to the name of St. Casimir
Way.
Without objection, Ordinance No.
1492-13 was relieved of further consideration of all committees and laid on
the table pursuant to the Rules of
Council.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 16.
Nays 0. Ordinance No. 1492-13. Laid on
the Table.

1483

13
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Brady, the absence of Council Member Brian J. Cummins is hereby
authorized.
Seconded by Council
Member Mitchell.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:17 p.m. to meet on Monday, October 20, 2014, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

October 8, 2014
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, October 8, 2014
at 11:05 a.m. with Director Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Directors
Baker,
Hennessy,
Director
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
O’Leary.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Rush.
Others: Melissa Burrows, Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
Tiffany
While,
Commissioner,
Division of Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 473-14.
By Director Dumas.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1593-13, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on January
22, 2014, as amended by Ordinance
No. 853-14, passed by the Cleveland
City Council on August 27, 2014, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with DebtNext, LLC, for the professional services necessary to assist
various departments and divisions
of the City with improving their
accounts receivables management,
and authorizing a software license
agreement with DebtNext, LLC to
use its proprietary software; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1593-13, as
amended by Ordinance No. 853-14,
provides that the compensation to be
paid for the services and for the
software license shall be a contingent fee, the percentage or rate of
which shall be fixed by the Board
of Control; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that

The City Record

14
under Ordinance No. 1593-13, as
amended by Ordinance No. 853-14,
the amount to be paid to DebtNext,
LLC for professional services related to the management of collection
services,
including
the
software
license, is fixed as a contingent fee
at sixteen percent (16%).
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Directors
Baker,
Hennessy,
Director
Director
Southerington,
Acting
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Rush.
Resolution No. 474-14.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of The Ryan Company, Inc.
for the public improvement of the
Ridge
Road
Ring
Bus
Project,
including
the
10%
contingency
allowance, all items, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
of
Public
Utilities,
Department
received on July 25, 2014, under the
authority of Ordinance No. 556-08,
passed June 9, 2008, upon a gross
price for the improvement in the
aggregate amount of $4,028,420.00, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director
of Public Utilities is authorized to
enter
into
a
contract
for
the
improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following sub-contractors for the
above-mentioned
public
improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Ruccella Construction
(CSB/MBE)

$610,000.00
15.142%

Ballast Construction, Inc.
(CSB/FBE)
$ 40,000.00
0.993%
Lakeland Electric Supply
(CSB)
$500,000.00
12.412%
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Directors
Baker,
Hennessy,
Director
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Rush.
Resolution No. 475-14.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Trumbull Industries, Inc.
for an estimated quantity of service
fittings, items 1-25, 31-35, 37 and 38,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two years starting upon the
later of the execution of a contract
or the day following expiration of
the currently effective contract for
the goods or services, received on
August 21, 2014 under the authority
of Section 129.25 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated

quantity would amount to $151,491.55
(0%, 25 Days), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services necessary for the specified
items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Directors Smith, Cox, Acting DirecBaker,
Hennessy,
Director
tors
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Rush.
Resolution No. 476-14.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of HD Supply Waterworks,
Ltd. for an estimated quantity of
service fittings, items 26-30, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of two
years starting upon the later of the
execution of a contract or the day
following expiration of the currently effective contract for the goods
or services, received on August 21,
2014 under the authority of Section
129.25 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland Ohio, 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $34,747.00 (0%, Net
30 Days), is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director
of
Public
Utilities
is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services necessary for the specified
items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Directors
Baker,
Hennessy,
Director
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Rush.
Resolution No. 477-14.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of The Cleveland Plumbing
Supply Co. for an estimated quantity of service fittings, items 36 and
39, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two years starting upon
the later of the execution of a contract or the day following expiration
of the currently effective contract
for the goods or services, received
on August 21, 2014 under the authority of Section 129.25 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $7,800.00

1484

October 15, 2014
(2%, 30 Days), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services necessary for the specified
items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Directors
Baker,
Hennessy,
Director
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Rush.
Resolution No. 478-14.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Lake Erie Ship Repair &
Fabrication LLC for an estimated
quantity of diving and underwater
inspection services, all items, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of two
years starting upon the later of the
execution of a contract or the day
following expiration of the currently effective contract for the goods
or
services,
with
two
one-year
options
to
renew,
received
on
August 21, 2014 under the authority
of Ordinance No. 1109-13, passed September 23, 2013, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to $702,900.00 (Net 30), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services necessary for
the specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Dumas,
Interim Director Dumas, Directors
Smith, Cox, Acting Directors Baker,
Hennessy, Director Southerington,
Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Rush.
Resolution No. 479-14.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Triad Engineering & Contracting Co. for the public improvement of Milligan Avenue Sewer Project (Base Bid All Items including
the 10% contingency allowance) for
the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities,
received on August 8, 2014, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 61513, passed May 20, 2013, upon a unit
basis for the improvement, in the
aggregate amount of $416,634.69, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director
of Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into contract for the improvement with the bidder.

The City Record

October 15, 2014
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Triad Engineering & Contracting
Co. for the above-mentioned public
improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

CSB/MBE/FBE
WORK

United Survey, Inc.
CSB
$131,586.00(31.58%)
Cunningham Paving Co.
CSB
$ 20,000.00(4.80%)
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Directors
Baker,
Hennessy,
Director
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Rush.
Resolution No. 480-14.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 815-12, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 4, 2012, the firm of URS Corporation (“Consultant”), is selected
upon the nomination of the Director
of Port Control from a list of qualified persons or firms determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Port Control as the
firm of consultants available to be
employed by contract to supplement
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City to
provide professional services necessary to provide general planning,
engineering and design services for
a period of one year, with three oneyear options to renew, for the various divisions of the Department of
Port Control.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract
with URS Corporation for the abovementioned services, based upon its
proposal dated May 2, 2014, which
contract shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, shall provide that
the compensation to URS Corporation for the services authorized
shall not exceed $100.000.00 for the
duration of the contract including
all optional renewal terms and shall
contain such other provisions as the
Director of Law deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following sub-consultants
by
URS
Corporation
is
approved:
Sub-consultant

Percentage
Amount

EdArch Associates, Inc.
1.000%-CSB/MBE
$1,000.00

McGuiness Unlimited, Inc.
2.500%-CSB
$2,500.00
KS Associates, Inc.

0.000%-FBE
$1,000.00

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Directors
Baker,
Hennessy,
Director
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Rush.
Resolution No. 481-14.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 815-12, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 4, 2012, the firm of Delta Airport
Consultants,
Inc.
(“Consultant”), is selected upon the nomination of the Director of Port Control
from a list of qualified persons or
firms determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Port Control as the firm of consultants available to be employed by
contract to supplement the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City to provide
professional services necessary to
provide general planning, engineering and design services for a period of one year, with three one-year
options to renew, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract
with Delta Airport Consultants, Inc.
for the above-mentioned services,
based upon its proposal dated April
29, 2014, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall
provide that the compensation to
Delta Airport Consultants, Inc. for
the services authorized shall ‘not
exceed $175,000.00 for the duration
of the contract including all optional renewal terms and shall contain
such other provisions as the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following sub-consultants by Delta Airport Consultants,
Inc. is approved:
Sub-consultant

Percentage
Amount

Osborn Engineering

10.00%-CSB
$17,500.00

Metropolitan Architecture
Studio
7.500%-CSB/FBE
$13,125.00
Michael Benza & Associates
5.000%-CSB
$ 8,750.00

G&T Associates, Inc.
5.000%-CSB/MBE
$5,000.00

Solar Testing Laboratories
3.000%-CSB
$ 5,250.00
ConstructAbility, Inc.
3.000%-CSB/MBE
$ 5,250.00

Solar Testing Laboratories
5.000%-CSB/FBE
$5,000.00

McGuiness Unlimited, Inc.
2.000%-CSB/FBE
$ 3,500.00

1485

15
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Directors
Baker,
Hennessy,
Director
Acting
Director
Southerington,
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Rush.
Resolution No. 482-14.
By Director Smith.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 744-12, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
September 24, 2012, and Board of
Control Resolution No. 547-12, Resolution No. 281-13 and Resolution No.
430-14, adopted October 24, 2012,
June 12, 2013 and September 10, 2014,
respectively, the City through its
Director of Port Control, entered
into Contract No. PS2013*036 with
Kokosing
Construction
Company,
Inc. and First and Second Modifications
thereto,
to
provide
design/build services for the Transient
Marina
and
associated
improvements at North Coast Harbor, for the Department of Port Control; and
Whereas, Resolution No. 430-14,
adopted September 10, 2014, incorrectly stated the compensation for
services under City Contract No.
PS2013*036 as modified by the First
and
Second
Modifications;
now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 430-14, adopted September 10, 2014, is amended by
changing “$387,927.00” to “$637,927.00”
where appearing in the resolution.
Be it further resolved that Resolution No. 430-14 is further amended
by increasing the contract amount
from “$2,999,577.00” to a total amount
not to exceed “$3,249,577.00”.
Be it further resolved that all
other terms of Resolution No. 430-14
not expressly amended by this resolution shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Directors
Baker,
Hennessy,
Director
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Rush.
Resolution No. 483-14.
By Director Smith.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 730-14, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 9, 2014, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized, for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, to convey a non-exclusive easement in City-owned land,
no longer needed for public use,
described therein and located at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, to The Cleveland Electric
Illuminating Company to install and
maintain electrical lines and other
facilities necessary for distributing
and transmitting electricity; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 730-14 provided that the consideration to be
paid for the easement shall be at a
price determined to be fair market
value by the Board of Control; now,
therefore,

The City Record

16
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
730-14, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on June 9, 2014,
the consideration to be paid for the
non-exclusive easement is fixed at
$20,000.00, which amount is determined to be fair market value.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Interim Director Dumas,
Directors Smith, Cox, Acting DirecBaker,
Hennessy,
Director
tors
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Rush.

121

WR

October 15, 2014

Airport
Maintenance
Worker Building

Open
Open

Bank statements (Within last three
months).

Car insurance documents.
122

WR

Auditor

123

WR

Cement Finisher Open

124

WR

Chief Radio
Dispatcher

125

126

127

EE

WR

WR

JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary
128

WR

Promo

Commissioner of
Administrative
Services
Non-Comp
Correctional
Supervisor

Open

Heavy Duty
Mechanic

Open

Income Tax
Tracer

Open

General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE
____________
ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2014
Filing Beginning 10/24/2014

Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.

Exam
Type

118

WR

Accountant III

Open

119

WR

Airport Unit
Leader Building

Open

Airport Unit
Leader - Field

Open

120

WR

Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).
Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).
The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.
Voter registration cards.
Birth certificates.
Notarized letters or affidavits.

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________

School registration of children.

129

EE

Instrumentation
Technician II
Open

130

WR

Parking Meter
Unit Leader

131

WR/TY Police Radio
Dispatcher

132

WR

Open

Open

Traffic Sign
and Marking
Technician

Open

133

WR

Unit Supervisor Customer
Service
Open

134

EE

Safety Programs
Manager
Non-Comp

135

EE

Safety Programs
Officer II
Open

56a

EE

Assistant Security
Manager
Open

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Lease - from rental agency.
Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.
Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.

1486

Social Security card.
Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 118

ACCOUNTANT III (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $15.48 - $25.32 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24,
2014 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 30, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2014.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

October 15, 2014

The City Record

DUTIES OF THE POSITION

SALARY

Under general supervision, is responsible for performing accounting functions in accordance with established
accounting systems. Analyzes reports
and data and advises in the procedures of accounting and the preparation of financial data. May be
required to instruct and/or supervise
Accountants I’s & II’s and Accountant
Clerks. Performs related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20.19 - $22.19 per Hour.

MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED from
an accredited institution is required.
A Bachelor’s Degree in Accounting,
Finance, or Business Administration
from an accredited four year college
or university is required. (Substitution: Two years of accounting experience may be substituted for each year
of education lacking.) Must have at
least two (2) years of full time paid
accounting experience. Must have a
working knowledge of various software packages.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 119
AIRPORT UNIT LEADER (Building)
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.

FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24,
2014 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 30, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2014.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under direction, supervises maintenance and repair work on airport
equipment, facilities, and buildings.
Assists with assignment of work.
Orders equipment and supplies. Manages work orders for appropriate sections. Supervises maintenance workers who provide labor for maintenance operations for summer and
winter tasks on runways, taxiways,
ramps, and airport-owned facilities.
Monitors and inspects crews, job
sites, and daily work assignments.
Assigns work tasks and completes
Alternative and Online Dispute Resolutions. Communicates with Control
Tower. Operates computers utilizing
standard and customized software
packages. Oversees Work with HVAC
systems including hot water boiler
operations, air handles, rooftop AC
and HV units as well as work on sanitary pump station. Supervises and
performs work with shop floor equipment such as metal brake, band saw,
metal shear, etc. Works with all hand
and power tools used in the maintenance field. Interprets mechanical
blueprints and plumbing isometric
drawings. Performs other job-related
duties as assigned. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.

1487

17
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A valid High School Diploma or GED
is required. A valid State of Ohio
Class
“B”
Commercial
Driver’s
License is required. One year of supervisory experience as well as experience with work-order management
system (WEBTMA) is preferred.
Must successfully complete a Transportation Security Administration
(TSA) 10 year fingerprint-based
Criminal History Records Check and
employment background check and
Security Threat Assessment. Must be
able to lift and carry 60 pounds. Must
be able to work any shift assignment
and overtime during the snow season.
Five years of commercial maintenance experience as well as two years
of commercial HVAC mechanical
maintenance experience is required.
Must have two years of commercial
snow removal experience.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 120
AIRPORT UNIT LEADER (Field)
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20.19 - $22.19 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available

The City Record

18
online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24,
2014 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 30, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2014.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under direction, supervises maintenance and repair work on airport
equipment, facilities, and buildings.
Assists with assignment of work.
Orders equipment and supplies. Manages work orders for appropriate sections. Supervises maintenance workers who provide labor for maintenance operations for summer and
winter tasks on runways, taxiways,
ramps, and airport-owned facilities.
Monitors and inspects crews, job
sites, and daily work assignments.
Assigns work tasks and completes
Alternative and Online Dispute Resolutions. Communicates with Control
Tower. Operates computers utilizing
standard and customized software
packages. Oversees Work with HVAC
systems including hot water boiler
operations, air handles, rooftop AC
and HV units as well as work on sanitary pump station. Supervises and
performs work with shop floor equipment such as metal brake, band saw,
metal shear, etc. Works with all hand
and power tools used in the maintenance field. Interprets mechanical
blueprints and plumbing isometric
drawings. Performs other job-related
duties as assigned. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A valid High School Diploma or GED
is required. A valid State of Ohio

Class
“B”
Commercial
Driver’s
License is required. One year of supervisory experience as well as experience with work-order management
system (WEBTMA) is preferred.
Must successfully complete a Transportation Security Administration
(TSA) 10 year fingerprint-based
Criminal History Records Check and
employment background check and
Security Threat Assessment. Must be
able to lift and carry 60 pounds. Must
be able to work any shift assignment
and overtime during the snow season.
Four years of airport field maintenance or general airport operations
experience is required. (Substitution:
A Bachelor’s Degree in Aviation may
substitute for experience.)
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 121
AIRPORT MAINTENANCE WORKER (Building) (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $19.09 - $19.47 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24,
2014 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 30, 2014.

1488

October 15, 2014
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2014.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, assists in maintenance and repair work requiring
mechanical ability and familiarity
with airport equipment, facilities,
and buildings. Duties may include but
are not limited to snow removal, landscaping, concrete, asphalt, fencing,
sewer, grass cutting, and crack-sealing repairs. Must be familiar with the
operation and mechanism of building
appurtenances, hand held power
tools, and larger power equipment
and vehicles used in facilities maintenance work. Performs other job-related duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma from an
accredited high school program or
GED is required. A two year accredited technical degree is required. (Substitutions for degree: completion of a
two year accredited technical apprenticeship program; Completion of a
vocational school HVAC/R, plumbing
program, or commercial maintenance
training program; A current State of
Ohio Stationary Engineer’s License;
The equivalent of two years full time
paid employment working commercial or industrial maintenance.) A
valid State of Ohio Class “B” Commercial Driver’s License is required and
must be obtained within 6 months of
the date of hire (In which case a valid
State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required at hire.) Must be able to lift
and carry 50 pounds, climb and
descend ladders, as well as enter confined spaces and below grade vaults.
Must have good verbal communication, average writing, and basic computer skills. Must be willing to work
any permanently assigned shift in a
three shift 24/7 schedule, with weekdays off as assigned. Must comply
with
a
Transportation
Security

October 15, 2014
Administration
(TSA)
ten-year
employment background check and
fingerprint-based criminal history
records check.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 122
AUDITOR (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,092.80 - $60,614.58 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24,
2014 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 30, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2014.

The City Record
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 123
CEMENT FINISHER (OPEN)

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, audits and/or
examines various City or divisional
accounts. Prepares various required
financial and/or audit reports using
standard accounting procedures. Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Accounting, Finance, Business, Public Administration or related field
from an accredited four (4) year college or university is required. One (1)
year of full time paid experience in
the Accounting/Business or Consulting field is required. (Substitution:
Two years of relevant full time paid
experience may substitute for each
year of college education lacking.)
be
knowledgeable
in
Should
Microsoft Office Suite and various
accounting
software
packages.
Strong written and verbal communication skills are required. Must be
able to lift and carry a minimum of
thirty (30) pounds. A valid state of
Ohio Driver’s License is required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.

EXAMINATION INFORMATION

NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.

TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.

NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

19

1489

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $37.46 - $46.82 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available
online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24,
2014 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 30, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2014.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION:
Candidates will be notified of the
time, date, and place of the written
exam by U.S. Mail.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision mixes, lays, and
finishes concrete and cement work.
Performs related duties as required.
TYPICAL TASKS: Makes cement
floors, steps, curbs, gutters, driveways, and sidewalks. Makes and
repairs transformer and other slab
foundations. Makes and repairs concrete manholes. Makes and repairs
ducts, lamp bases, handholes, and
pullbox covers. Repairs filter and
manhole walls. Concretes in grade
manhole rings, frames, lamp bases,
anchor rods, and transformer foundation rods and rails. Pre-casts driveways. Pre-casts lamp bases and
retaining walls. Rubs and finishes
walls, foundations, and other concrete surfaces. Follows all operations
and safety policies and safe work
practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL

The City Record

20
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:

8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24,
2014 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 30, 2014.

A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Four years of experience as
a Journeyman Cement Mason is
required. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s
License
is
required.

NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2014.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. Any applicant who can provide proof of unemployment, public
assistance, or indigence is exempt
from the filing fee. A copy of such
proof must be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 124
CHIEF RADIO DISPATCHER (PROMOTIONAL)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a Promotional examination for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $39,788.00 - $48,846.62 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

October 15, 2014
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Five years of full time radio
dispatch experience with the City of
Cleveland is required. Must possess
LEADS certification. (If promotional
exam is given, must have regular status as a Police Radio Dispatcher)
Must successfully complete and earn
certification in the Association of
Public Safety Communications Officials (APCO) Public Safety Telecommunicator 1 course within three
months of promotion.

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, supervises the
activities performed by Division of
Police, Bureau of Communications
civilian staff on a given shift.
Ensures that 9-1-1 and other division
emergency and non-emergency telephone lines are answered in a timely
manner. Schedules daily work assignments, maintains employee time
cards. Coordinates employee time-off
requests to ensure adequate staffing
levels. Conducts daily random monitoring of employees, yearly employee
performance evaluations, and quarterly sick use evaluations. Makes recommendations to bureau Commander
regarding potential sick abuse.
Offers employees guidance and direction related to citizens’ calls for assistance. Assists employee in determining proper priority code for a police
call for service, as needed. Closely
monitors and evaluates the development of new employees, offering
advice and coaching when needed
and identifying areas where additional training is needed. Makes appropriate notifications regarding newsworthy incidents. Notifies specialized
police units to respond to the scene of
an incident. Coordinates police communication for special events and
emergencies. Responds to requests
for information from the media and
other Division personnel. Handles
calls from citizens related to complaints of Division misconduct. Investigates complaints against subordinates, compiles evidence, and makes
recommendations on these complaints to the bureau Commander.
Provides documentation reports to
the bureau Commander. Offers recommendations on bureau policy and
operation.
Maintains
personnel
records, various lists, logs and other
documentation. Troubleshoots equipment malfunctions, contacts vendors
for repairs as needed. Participates in
community public safety meetings
and provides tours of the bureau to
citizens and other groups. When
required, performs the duties of “officer in charge” (OIC), during their
tour of duty. Performs other job-related duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety

1490

NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 125
COMMISSIONER OF ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $40,314.82 - $136,049.25 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.

October 15, 2014
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2014 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2014.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY NINE MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under
administrative
direction,
responsible for the general management of the Administrative Services
Division. Manages the effective delivery of budget, accounting, personnel/payroll, grant compliance and
management, management information systems, 3rd party nonprofit
agency contracting, and logistical
services to the operating divisions
within the Department of Community
Development. Coordinates the development of the annual Consolidated
Plan (grant application) and the
annual reporting on grant performance to HUD on an annual basis.
Supervises the administration of revenue and expenses for the Department, including funds received from
HUD and the State of Ohio. Hires
qualified division staff and conducts
periodic evaluations of their performance. Supervises and trains divisional staff, directly or through subordinates. Develops and implements
policies and programs in support of
divisional goals and objectives. Maintains records required by funding,
policy, operational need, or for generating reports. Monitors and evaluates
compliance with Fair Housing, Section
3
and
M.B.E/F.B.E./C.S.B
requirements for programs using
grant or loan funds from the Department. Administers the enforcement of
Fair Labor Standards Act regulations
for grant funded construction projects. Provides public information
regarding Community Development

The City Record
Block Grant activities. Interprets and
applies rules and regulations related
to Community Development operations and programs. Monitors program activities to ensure that funds
are used in compliance with applicable funding requirements, including
those established by federal and state
program regulations. Performs other
job-related duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe work practices. Attends
and participates in operations and
safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of
competence may be determined by
exam). Wears and properly utilizes
safety equipment in accordance with
Divisional policy at all times.
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Planning, Business Administration,
Public Administration, Urban Studies, or related field from a four year
accredited college or university is
required. Five years of full time paid
experience in the supervision of programs or program management
demonstrating a broad range of job
responsibilities and technical competencies as well as direct experience in
the delivery of public programs and
services. (Substitution: One additional year of experience may substitute
for each year of college education
lacking.) A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is required. The following are preferred: A Master’s Degree
in Public Administration, Business
Administration, or related field;
Familiarity with U.S. Department of
Housing Urban Development regulations for the Community Development
Block Grant (CDBG), HOME, Emergency Shelter Grant (ESG), and Housing Opportunities for Persons With
Aids (HOPWA) programs; Experience in managing regulatory programs; Experience working with
elected and appointed officials and
the general public.

21
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,800.00 - $52,733.77 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24,
2014 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 30, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2014.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION

SUPERVISOR

Under direction, supervises and coordinates the work performed by correctional workers. Assigns daily
work to security staff. Reviews and
records staff attendance records in
compliance
with
City
policies.
Ensures minimum coverage exists for
security functions. Audits and maintains a journal of security activities.
Reviews reports, logs, and other
records prepared by personnel for
clarity, completeness, accuracy, and
conformance with institutional policies and procedures. Writes reports
and routes approved reports and
records to Commissioner or designee
for action. Coordinates security staff
and other units. Directs activity during an emergency. May assist in planning and delivery of staff training
and indoctrination. Approves leave
requests. Evaluates personnel performance and initiates subordinate staff
disciplinary actions. Performs other
job-related duties as required. Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.

MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS

NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 126
CORRECTIONAL
(OPEN)

1491

The City Record

22
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or G.E.D. is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree from a
four (4) year accredited college or
university in Criminal Justice or a
closely related field is required.
Three (3) years of full time paid experience in a correctional institution or
related justice component is required.
A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License
is required. (Substitution: One year of
full time paid experience will substitute for each year of college education lacking.) Must obtain certification for minimum standards for full
service jails within one year of
appointment. Must pass an extensive
background check. Must be able to
become LEADS certified.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 127
HEAVY DUTY MECHANIC (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $15.75 - $26.13 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM

8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24,
2014 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 30, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2014.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

October 15, 2014
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 128
INCOME TAX TRACER (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, inspects, repairs,
adjusts, and services trucks and other
motorized equipment 20,000 GVW and
over. Makes other repairs and adjustments to secondary units. Performs
other job-related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required, a Diploma from a High
School or Trade School with training
in heavy duty truck and diesel repair
is preferred. Three years of full time
paid experience in the repair and
maintenance of motorized heavy
equipment 20,000 lbs. G.V.W. and over
is required. Must have the appropriate tools to perform required duties. A
valid State of Ohio Class B Commercial Driver’s License is required. Must
be able to lift and carry a minimum of
30 pounds.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.

1492

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $12.60 - $18.40 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24,
2014 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 30, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2014.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Verifies income tax returns for mathematical accuracy. Totals and corrects income, place of employment,
and residence. Codes and batches
income tax returns and verifies
scanned payment information on
CRTs. Receives and applies payments
on delinquent accounts. Performs
other related duties within or outside
the tax office. Follows all operations
and safety policies and safe work
practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and

October 15, 2014
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Two years of post-secondary schooling from an accredited
college or university is required, six
(6) credit hours of which must be in
Accounting. (Substitution: The equivalent of one year of experience in
Accounting, Bookkeeping, Auditing,
or closely related field may substitute
for each year of post secondary
schooling lacking.) Must demonstrate exceptional mathematical ability.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 129
INSTRUMENTATION TECHNICIAN
II (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $22.81 - $24.64 per Hour.

The City Record
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24,
2014 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 30, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2014
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

23
A High School Diploma or G.E.D. is
required. An Associate’s Degree in
Environmental Science, Physics, Biology, Geology, Engineering, Mathematics, or any other science related
field from an accredited college or
university is required, a Bachelor’s
Degree is preferred. Three years of
full time paid experience in environmental compliance as it relates to air
pollution monitoring is required. One
year of supervisory experience is
required. Should demonstrate a thorough knowledge of air pollution regulations pertaining to air monitoring.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision of the Senior
Instrumentation Technician, monitors, tests, adjusts, maintains, and
repairs electronic instruments and
equipment. Installs and performs setup of equipment necessary for test
and calibration purposes. Maintains
and tests instruments. Inspects electronic system components. Supervises, guides and instructs, as necessary,
Instrumentation Technician I’s or
other instrument repair staff. Maintains parts inventories. Identifies
equipment needs. Develops specifications for the purchase of new equipment and evaluates technical adequacy of bids received. Records repairs.
Prepares reports, charts, graphs, and
curves. May be required to climb to
various heights (poles, ladders,
stairs, etc.) or work in confined
spaces for prolonged periods of time.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:

1493

NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 130
PARKING METER UNIT LEADER
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $24,679.38 - $42,476.36 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24,
2014 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 30, 2014.

The City Record

24
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2014.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Schedules and supervises the operations of the Parking Meter Service
Workers. Tabulates and analyzes
individual work orders. Keeps time
records on service workers. Makes
necessary reports to the Traffic Engineer’s office and Traffic Enforcement
office. Makes inspections, repairs,
adjustments, and replacements of
parking meters and appurtenances,
both in the shop and on the street. Utilizes hand and electric tools. Makes
all necessary work orders and reports
in accordance with good shop practices. Records and tabulates parking
survey data. Erects necessary parking signs and lays out parking meter
spaces. Operates a jackhammer. Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required.  Two years of paid experience working with tools and repairing small equipment as a handyman
is required. Two years of supervisory
experience is also required.  Knowledge of parking meter repair is preferred.  Knowledge of parking regulations and City of Cleveland streets
is also preferred. Must have a working knowledge of computers (Windows, Microsoft Office).    A valid
State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required.  Must be able to lift and
carry 100 pounds.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is

disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 131
POLICE
(OPEN)

RADIO

DISPATCHER

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $22,885.90 - $42,544.60 per Year.

October 15, 2014
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Operates the police radio equipment
and dispatch police units as directed.
Maintains familiarity with the streets
of the City and the various social
agencies available to assist those in
need. Answers telephone calls from
citizens, elicits pertinent information,
analyzes situations and makes decisions as to the appropriate response.
Writes out dispatch tickets and
assigns the proper priority code. Contacts other agencies when needed,
that is, Fire, EMS, Utilities, Dog Warden, etc. Maintains the bank alarm
board and follow proper procedures in
handling bank alarms. Performs any
other duty as directed by proper
authority. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License or State ID is required.
Must be able to type at least 30 words
per minute, less than 30 wpm is not
acceptable. Must pass a criminal
background check, drug test, and
physical.

FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available
online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24,
2014 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 30, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2014.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN/TYPING EXAMINATION Candidates will be notified
of the time, date, and place of the written exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: CANDIDATES MUST PASS
BOTH PARTS OF THIS EXAM IN
ORDER TO BE PLACED ON THE
ELIGIBLE
LIST.
CANDIDATES
WILL NOT BE PERMITTED TO
TAKE THE SECOND PORTION OF
THE EXAM IF THEY DO NOT PASS
THE FIRST PORTION. THE TYPING PORTION OF THIS EXAM IS
PASS/FAIL

1494

NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. Any applicant who can provide proof of unemployment, public
assistance, or indigence is exempt
from the filing fee. A copy of such
proof must be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.

The City Record

October 15, 2014
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 132
TRAFFIC SIGN AND
TECHNICIAN (OPEN)

MARKING

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $16.57 - $18.22 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24,
2014 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 30, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2014.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under direct supervision, performs
specific duties of road marking, sign
erection, metal shop, metal cleaning,
shop maintenance, unit office, and
related work as performed in the
Traffic Sign and Paint Unit, Division
of Traffic Engineering and Parking.
Works with hand tools, mechanical
paint spray equipment, and self-propelled striping equipment for crosswalks and confined areas. Responsible for proper operation and routine
maintenance of assigned equipment.
Uses special tools, such as air-powered tools, lifting equipment, and cutting torches. Is assigned to special
sign construction equipment and
vehicles or is in charge of sign or
marking crew and equipment. Prepares and executes work orders and
implements record systems. Responsible, under direction, for unit office
duties, field checking, traffic signs,

stock room duties, and issuance of
materials. Checks sign installation
for utility clearance. Acts as liaison
with utilities personnel as required.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is required, an Ohio
Commercial Driver’s License – Class
“B” is required within six months of
the date of hire. Must be able to lift
and carry at least thirty pounds.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 133
UNIT SUPERVISOR (Customer Service) (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.

1495

25
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $23.06 - $23.99 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24,
2014 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 30, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2014.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST: Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general direction, supervises
the operation of support, technical,
clerical, temporary, and other unit
staff
members.
Schedules
and
reviews work. Provides on-the-job
training and coaching. Processes
complex transactions. Determines eligibility and/or compliance with rules,
regulations, and laws. Responds to
inquiries and resolves problems.
Determines actions necessary for collection activities and bankruptcy filings. Performs research and communicates with outside involved parties.
Compiles statistics and summary
reports. Retrieves prepared reports.
Prepares correspondence. Monitors
service calls. Makes recommendations for unit improvements. Monitors
permit processes. Complies with public records requests. Submits/processes referrals. Oversees the establishment, adjustment, and reconciliation
of accounts in a billing system.
Assists management in planning and
implementing unit policies and procedures. Conducts or provides input for
the
performance
management
process. Works various shifts, weekends, special events, during emergencies, and during staff shortages as
necessary. Performs other job-related
duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.

The City Record

26
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:

APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2014 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2014.

A High School Diploma or GED is
required. An Associate’s Degree in
Accounting, Business, or related field
from an accredited college or university is required. Two years of full
time paid experience in a call center
with an emphasis on customer service
and resolution of complaints is
required, experience in a utility call
center is preferred. (Substitution: One
year of directly related experience
may substitute for each year of college education lacking.) Must possess
intermediate-level computer knowledge including Internet and MS
Office. The ability to speak a second
language is preferred.

NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2014.

NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 134
SAFETY PROGRAMS
(NON-COMP)

MANAGER

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $30,214.95 to $91,848.40 per Year.

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY NINE MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under administrative direction, oversees the development, implementation, and maintenance of comprehensive and integrated safety programs
within a City Division or Department,
ensuring compliance with applicable
rules and regulations. Coordinates
safety training, workers compensation program, inspection of job sites,
and investigation of accidents or
other
related
safety
incidents.
Ensures compliance with local, state,
and federal rules and regulations.
Prepares requisite reports. Performs
other job-related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam). Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:

FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.

A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Occupational Health and Safety, Business/Public Administration, or a
closely related field from an accredited four-year college or university is

1496

October 15, 2014
required. Three years of progressively responsible experience in Occupational Health and Safety, one of
which must be supervisory in nature,
is required. (Substitution: Two years
of experience may substitute for each
year of college education lacking.)
Two years of program/project management is also required. A valid
State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required. Must be able to wear and
utilize required safety equipment
such as respirators, hearing protection, or fall restraining harnesses as
required by the conditions present at
any incident and as required under
applicable state or federal regulations. ASP, CSP, or CUSA certification, or status as an OSHA outreach
trainer is preferred. HAZWOPER certification within one year of appointment may be required by division.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 135
SAFETY PROGRAMS OFFICER II
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $25,000.00 - $68,226.69 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24,
2014 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 30, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2014
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.

October 15, 2014
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general direction, assists in
developing, implementing, and maintaining a safety program with applicable rules and regulations. Promotes
safety awareness programs, including implementation of safety training. Assists in developing methods,
procedures, and practices to prevent
accidents. Investigates claims to
determine validity as well as root
causes of injuries. Works with
Departmental personnel to formulate
employee/management safety committees to identify and eliminate hazardous conditions. Prepares weekly
reports identifying areas with high
rates of injury. Performs ergonomic
assessments, working in conjunction
with the Bureau of Worker’s Compensation Safety & Hygiene Division.
Identifies best-practices for injury
prevention and Worker’s Compensation cost containment. Identifies transitional work positions within the
Division. Performs surveillance to
prevent abuse of the Worker’s Compensation system when applicable.
Ensures employee compliance with
all safety programs. Develops safety
manuals and procedures. Ensures
compliance with all local, state, and
federal rules and regulations. Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Occupational Health and Safety, Business/Public Administration, or a
closely related field from an accredited four-year college or university is
required. Two years of management
experience in the administration of
safety and/or worker’s compensation
programs is required. (Substitution:
One year of experience may substitute for each year of college education lacking.) A valid State of Ohio
Driver’s License is required. Must be
able to wear and utilize required safety equipment such as respirators,
hearing protection, or fall restraining
harnesses as required by the conditions present at any incident and as
required under applicable state or
federal regulations. ASP, CSP, or
CUSA certification is preferred. HAZWOPER certification within one year
of appointment may be required by
division.

The City Record
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.

27
NOTE: Those persons who have
already applied for this exam do not
need to apply again. Your applications will be re-evaluated with the
amended minimum qualifications.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION

NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 56A
ASSISTANT SECURITY MANAGER
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,800.00 - $58,837.68 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24,
2014 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 30, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2014.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

Under supervision of the Security
Manager, assists in developing and
implementing security programs and
procedures for a City Division.
Assists in scheduling security personnel for shifts or special events. Schedules radio dispatchers for special fire
watches. Assists in the investigation
of theft and personal injury claims
against the City. Changes building
locks and cuts keys for facilities as
needed. Serves as the liaison between
facility security operations and City
law enforcement agencies. Assists in
the training of personnel in the operation of security systems. Provides special security for events. Monitors fire
safety systems. Prepares required
reports as well as documents for use
in legal claims. Performs other jobrelated duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or G.E.D. is
required. Three (3) years of full time
paid experience as a security officer
or a similar security-related position
is required. Use of a 9mm hand gun is
required. Must have the physical ability to defend oneself and perform
police activities through basic patrol
training. Must be computer literate
and knowledgeable with Microsoft
Office (especially Word). The completion of a minimum nineteen (19)
Basic
Police
Training
week
School/Academy with certification or
OPOTA/OPOTC private police or private security certification is required.
A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License
is required.

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Fifty percent of applicant’s
grade will be determined based on
Education and Experience found in
Resume.
ORAL EXAMINATION: Fifty percent
of applicant’s grade will be determine
by oral interview.

1497

NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance

The City Record

28
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
ROBERT BENNETT,
President
October 15, 2014

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2014
9:30 A.M.
Calendar
No.
14-188:
17045-17121
Euclid Avenue (Ward 10)
John Malone, owner, proposes to
install a 54 inch high black aluminum picket fence in the front
yard and 6 foot high black chain
link fence along the side street yard
of property located in a D2 Local
Retail Business District contrary to
Section 358.05(a)(2) of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances which states
that fences in actual front yards and
in side street yards shall not exceed
four feet in height. (Filed September 16, 2014)
Calendar No. 14-190: 2342 Professor
Avenue (Ward 3)
2342 Professor LLC., owner, proposes to change use from print shop
to art gallery/store on a corner parcel located in a C1 General Retail
Business
District.
The
owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application of Section 349.04(f) of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances
which states that 4 off-street parking spaces are required and none
are proposed. (Filed September 19,
2014)
Calendar No. 14-192: 2489 East 79th
Street (Ward 6)
John Deadwyler, owner, proposes
to expand an existing car wash to
include Motor Vehicle major repair
as defined in Section 325.483 of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances on a
parcel located in a C2 General
Retail Business District. The owner
appeals for relief from the following
Sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 343.11 which states that
in a General Retail Business District
Motor
Vehicle
major
auto
repair is not permitted.

2. Section 345.03(c)(2) which
states that motor vehicle major
repair garage is first permitted in
Semi-Industry if located 100 feet
away from a Residential District
and the proposed site abuts a
Multi-Family Residential District.
3. Section 352.09 which states
that an 8 foot wide transition strip
is required where the lot abuts a
Multi-Family Residential District
and none is shown. (Filed September 23, 2014)
Calendar No. 14-195: 3173 Ashwood
Road (Ward 4)
Charlene Gilmore, owner, appeals
to erect 30 linear feet of 4 foot high
steel fence with bollards and plastic
chains within the side yard of a parcel located in an AA1 One-Family
Residential District contrary to Section 358.04(b) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances which states that
the minimum distance for a fence
running parallel to an adjacent
building shall be no less than 3 feet
to the wall of the existing dwelling
and 2.59 feet are proposed. (Filed
October 1, 2014)
POSTPONED FROM
SEPTEMBER 15, 2014
Calendar No. 14-162: 10201 Harvard
Avenue (Ward 2)
9000 Aetna LLC, owner, proposes
to establish use for outside storage/stockpiling of dirt and rock on
a parcel located in a B3 Semi-Industry District. The owner appeals for
relief from the strict application of
the following Sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 345.03(c) which states
that in a Semi-Industry District open
yard storage/stockpiling of dirt/top
soil/rock/dusty materials are not
among permitted listed uses.
2. Section 347.05 which states that
no space for the storage or distribution of coal, cinders, stone, slag,
sand, cement, lime, iron ore or similar dust-producing material shall be
located less than three hundred
(300) feet from a Residence District,
Local Retail Business District or
General Retail Business District,
except where the dust, smoke, odor,
noise and vibration therefrom will
effectively
be
confined
to
the
premises. The subject parcel is
directly across the street from a
Two-Family Residential District.
3. Section 345.03(c)(33) states that
any material stored in unclosed
premises to a height greater than
four feet above grade level shall be
surrounded by a substantial seven
foot high wall or fence erected to
observe all required building lines
and no fence is shown.
4. Section 349.07(a) states that
accessory off-street parking spaces,
driveways and vehicle maneuvering
areas shall be properly graded for
drainage
so
that
all
water
is
drained within the lot providing
such parking spaces, and surfaced
with concrete, asphalt, or other
acceptable paving material maintained
in
good
condition.
No
drainage or specific paving detail
shown. Driveway and aprons must
also be shown on the plan. (Filed
August 15, 2014)
Postponed to November 3rd to
allow for time for the Appellant to
revise plans to show accurately
what they own.

1498

October 15, 2014
POSTPONED FROM
SEPTEMBER 29, 2014
Calendar No. 14-170: 2472 East 126th
Street (Ward 6)
Emily Trier, owner, proposes to
change
use
from
a
two-family
dwelling unit to a three-family
dwelling on a 45’ x 130’ parcel located in a B1 Two-Family Residential
District. The owner appeals for
relief from the strict application of
the following Sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 337.03 which states that
a three-family use is not permitted
in a Two-Family Residential District but first permitted in MultiFamily Residential District.
2. Section 337.03(c) The Board of
Zoning Appeals, after public notice
and public hearing, and upon prescribing proper safeguards to preserve the character of the neighborhood, may grant special permits for
the remodeling of existing dwelling
houses or the erection of row houses to provide for more than two (2)
dwelling units but not more than six
dwelling units in each building, provided that:
(1) The square feet of lot area to
be allotted to each dwelling unit is
in accordance with the area regulations included in Chapter 355;
(2) The dwelling units to be created will be not smaller than two
(2) rooms and a bathroom;
(3) There will be no exterior evidence that a remodeled dwelling
house is occupied by more than two
(2) families, except such as may be
permitted by the Board;
(4) The building when altered or
erected and when occupied will conform to all the applicable provisions
of the Building and Housing Codes
and as the Commissioner of Building and the Commissioner of Housing so certify;
3. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot area for a threefamily dwelling is 7,200 square feet
and 5,850 square feet are proposed.
(Filed August 28, 2014)
Postponed at the Request Of the
Board so that the Appellant could
consult with the Councilman and the
Development Corporation for furthur
review.
POSTPONED FROM
OCTOBER 6, 2014
Calendar No. 14-173: 15201 Chatfield
Avenue (Ward 17)
M & H Investment Co., owner, proposes to change use from a wire
warehouse and factory to motor
vehicle repair shop on an irregular
shaped parcel located in a B1 Residence Industry and Semi-Industry
District. The owner appeals for
relief from the strict application of
the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
Section
345.02(g)(4)
which
1.
states that motor vehicle repair is
permitted if located not less than
one hundred feet from a Residential
District and the subject property is
84 feet to a One-Family Residential
District across the street on Chatfield.
2. Section 359.01 states that a substitution
of
nonconforming
use
requires Board of Zoning Appeals
approval. (Filed September 4, 2014)

The City Record

October 15, 2014
Postponed at the request of the
Councilman and the Development
Corporation for furthur review.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2014
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, October
13, 2014, the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 14-117: 1201 Auburn
Avenue (Parking and Common
Area)
City of Cleveland Land Reutilization,
owner,
Chelsea
Investment
Partners prospective purchaser proposes to establish use as parking,
vehicle access, trash area, and common area for nine townhouses located on separate lots, on a parcel that
is located in a B1 Two Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-118: 1201 Auburn
Avenue, Unit 1
Chelsea
Investment
Partners,
owner, proposes to construct a 2,046
square foot, four story dwelling unit
on a 549 square foot lot in a B1 Two
Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-119: 1201 Auburn
Avenue, Unit 2
Chelsea
Investment
Partners,
owner, proposes to construct a 2,046
square foot, four story dwelling unit
on a 549 square foot lot in a B1 Two
Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-121: 1201 Auburn
Avenue, Unit 4
Chelsea
Investment
Partners,
owner, proposes to construct a 2,046
square foot, four story dwelling unit
on a 549 square foot lot in a B1 Two
Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-122: 1201 Auburn
Avenue, Unit 5
Chelsea
Investment
Partners,
owner, proposes to construct a 2,046
square foot, four story dwelling unit
on a 549 square foot lot in a B1 Two
Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-123: 1201 Auburn
Avenue, Unit 6
Chelsea
Investment
Partners,
owner, proposes to construct a 2,046
square foot, four story dwelling unit
on a 549 square foot lot in a B1 Two
Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-124: 1201 Auburn
Avenue, Unit 7
Chelsea
Investment
Partners,
owner, proposes to construct a 2,046
square foot, four story dwelling unit
on a 549 square foot lot in a B1 Two
Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-125: 1201 Auburn
Avenue, Unit 8
Chelsea
Investment
Partners,
owner, proposes to construct a 2,046
square foot, four story dwelling unit
on a 549 square foot lot in a B1 Two
Family Residential District.

29

Calendar No. 14-148: 602 Marquardt
Avenue
Cleveland Bricks, owner, proposes
to erect a two story, 1,885 square
foot townhouse on a 2,252 square
foot parcel located in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-149: 604 Marquardt
Avenue
Cleveland Bricks, owner, proposes
to erect a two story, 1,730 square
foot townhouse on a 2,252 square
foot parcel located in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-150: 606 Marquardt
Avenue
Cleveland Bricks, owner, proposes
to erect a two story, 1,893 square
foot townhouse on a 2,252 square
foot parcel located in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-151: 608 Marquardt
Avenue
Cleveland Bricks, owner, proposes
to erect a two story, 1,362 square
foot townhouse on a 2,252 square
foot parcel located in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 14-156: 3332 Scranton
Road
Sotre
Properties
appealed
for
relief from the strict application of
Section 357.13 of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances which states that
the condensing units are not permitted yard encroachments.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 14-120: 1201 Auburn
Avenue, Unit 3
Chelsea
Investment
Partners,
owner, proposes to construct a 2,046
square foot, four story dwelling unit
on a 549 square foot lot in a B1 Two
Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-126: 1201 Auburn
Avenue, Unit 9
Chelsea
Investment
Partners,
owner, proposes to construct a 2,046
square foot, four story dwelling unit
on a 549 square foot lot in a B1 Two
Family Residential District.

locate a Mobile Food Shop at the
location of Coast Guard Lots #9 and
#10 west of the parking lot and
north of North Marginal Road by the
Cleveland City Council.
The following appeal was POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 14-095: Antonio Ortiz
4207 Clark Avenue. Postponed to
December 22, 2014.
The following appeals were heard
by the Board on October 6, 2014 and
the decisions were adopted and
approved on October 13, 2014:
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 14-174: 2039 West 19th
Street
Gia Hoosien, owner, appealed to
erect a two story 3,779 square foot
single family residence with an inlaw suite above located on a 6,000
square foot lot located in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-176: 14620 Lakeshore
Boulevard
Jaeger
Development,
owner,
appealed to erect a 6 foot tall iron
fence in the front yard of a parcel
located in a C2 Multi-Family Residential District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

were

None.
The following appeal was WITHDRAWN:
Calendar No. 14-77: 16625 Euclid
Avenue
SNS
Properties,
LLC.,
owner,
appealed to establish use as a motor
vehicle service garage on a parcel
located in a D2 Local Retail Business District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

The following appeals were DISMISSED:
Calendar No. 14-179: Mobile Food
Shop at Dock 32
Emmanuel Tsambounieris appeals
under the authority of Section 76-6
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances from
being
denied
an
application
to
locate a Mobile Food Shop at the
location of Dock 32 on Erieside
Avenue by the Cleveland City Council.
Calendar No. 14-180: Mobile Food
Shop at Coast Guard Lots #9 &
#10
Emmanuel Tsambounieris appeals
under the authority of Section 76-6
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances from
being
denied
an
application
to

1499

Re: Report of the Meeting of
October 8, 2014
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:
*    *    *
Docket A-137-14.
RE: Appeal of Parkway Manner
LLC, Owner of the R-2 Residential —
Non-transient; Apartments (Shared
Egress) High-Rise Building Property, located on the premises known
as 10109 Lake Avenue from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR /EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE,
dated March 31, 2014, and from a

The City Record

30
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — ELEVATOR CODE, dated April 9, 2014
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-137-14 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
*    *    *
Docket A-146-14.
RE: Appeal of Khalid Qureshi,
Owner of the R-2 Residential — Non(Shared
transient;
Apartments
Egress) Two Story Frame Property,
located on the premises known as
3303 West 23rd Place from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated July 23, 2014,
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until October 15, 2014 in
which to secure the property from
casual entry in accordance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, and to clean and maintain the grounds, and to grant the
Appellant until November 15, 2014 in
which to submit a plan for approval
to the Building Department for rehabilitation of the property, noting
that failure to meet either of these
dates will REMAND the property
immediately to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-150-14.
RE: Appeal of Bruce A. Kotnik,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Masonry Property, located on the
premises known as 17610 East Park
Drive from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — NO PERMIT, dated July 10,
2014 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until November 8, 2014 in
which to obtain all required permits
for the other work on the Violation
Notice that requires a permit, and to
extend the existing plumbing permit
and that all work on the property
must be completed by May 30, 2015.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

located on the premises known as
2823 East 120th Street from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE-NANCE,
dated July 14, 2014 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until November 15, 2014 to
restructure the porch, and until
April 30, 2015 to complete abatement
of the roof and the garage; the property is REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-152-14.
RE: Appeal of Joseph W. Schutt,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 18910 Chicksaw
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — FIRE DAMAGE, dated
June 27, 2014 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-152-14 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
*    *    *
Docket A-153-14.
RE: Appeal of Farid Nagib, Owner
of the R-2 Residential — Non-transient; Apartments (Shared Egress)
Two Story Masonry Walls/Wood
Floors Property, located on the
premises known as 7527 Kinsman
Road
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated June 30, 2014, the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until March 15, 2015 to
abate the violations by demolishing
the property, noting that the property must be secured and the
grounds debris free during that period of time; the property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *

*    *    *
Docket A-151-14.
RE: Appeal of Bernita C. Sherrell,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,

Docket A-154-14.
RE: Appeal of Sandusky Solutions
LLC, Owner of the F-2 Factory —
Low
Hazard
(Non-combustibles)
Property, located on the premises
known as 2175 Ashland Road from

1500

October 15, 2014
ORDER
—
a
CONDEMNATION
MAIN STRUCTURE, dated July 11,
2014 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
Docket A-154-14 has been POSTPONED; to be reschedule for October 22, 2014.
*    *    *
Docket A-155-14.
RE: Appeal of Sherri and Sandra
Sullins, Owners of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence Two &
Story
Frame
Property,
One/half
located on the premises known as
2816 East 125th Street from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated July
11, 2014 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until May 30, 2015 to complete abatement of the violations,
which consist principally of the roof,
doors and garage; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-156-14.
RE: Appeal of Cleveland Housing
Solutions, Owner of the One Story
Garage — Detached Property, located on the premises known as 1942
West 65th Street from a CONDEMNATION ORDER — GARAGE, dated
June 23, 2014 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Condemnation Order was properly
issued and to DENY the appeal; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Maschke and
seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-159-14.
RE: Appeal of Aola Pempton,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Residence
Two
&
Two-Family
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
2789 East 119th Street from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated July
11, 2014, of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).

October 15, 2014

The City Record

BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until May 1, 2015 in which
to complete abatement of the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance, noting that the return airs are
unobstructed from the second floor
all the way through to the basement
area and that there is no door possibility, there are no closure requirements possible from the second floor
to the basement area. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

*    *    *

*    *    *

Docket A-160-14.
RE: Appeal of Salathiel Carter,
Beverly Johnson, Contractor/Owner
of the Residential Property, located
on the premises known as 17209 Lipton Avenue from a LIMITATION ON
THE PERMITS, dated February 7,
2014, of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until November 15, 2014 in
which to complete abatement of all
violations per the permit; the property is REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS
FROM SEPTEMBER 10, 2014:

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Saab.

*    *    *

*    *    *

Docket A-175-14.
RE: Appeal of
Case
Western
Reserve University, Owner of the
Property, located on the premises
known as 1819 East 101st Street
from an ADJUDICATION ORDER,
dated August 13, 2014, of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance, noting the hardships and
infeasibility of updating the elevator platform, and to allow this elevator to exist in its current configuration and size, and that any
future major modifications at the
facility will include modification of
this elevator. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES FROM
SEPTEMBER 10, 2014:

*    *    *
Docket A-177-14.
RE: Appeal of Elizabeth Bilicic,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 19602 Muskoka
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — HVAC, dated September 18,
2014, of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).

Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):

31
APPROVAL OF MINUTES FROM
SEPTEMBER 24, 2014:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr.
Bradley Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
September 24, 2014
Yeas: Messrs. Gallagher, Saab,
Bradley. Nays: None. Not Voting:
Messrs. Denk, Maschke.
*    *    *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
A-108-14
A-125-14
A-129-14
A-132-14
A-136-12
A-157-14
Corp.
A-158-14

—
—
—
—
—
—

Dorothy L. Fort
Lisa Cortese
Patrick & Nancy Rutti
Willie Ronald Brooks
Byron Waldorf
Northeast Shores Dev.

— Tian Jin LLC

Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
September 10, 2014
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Saab.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS
FROM SEPTEMBER 24, 2014:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-131-14
A-139-14
Lee
A-143-14
A-148-14
A-149-14

— Steven & Sherri Brown
— Ken & Ze Juan Zhu
— Robert Childs
— Joseph Coreno
— Martin Kirkwood

Yeas: Messrs. Gallagher, Saab,
Bradley. Nays: None. Not Voting:
Messrs. Denk, Maschke.

1501

_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On Development, Planning
and Sustainability
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Tuesday, October 21, 2014
9:30 a.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on Development,
Planning and Sustainability will
hold a public hearing in the Mercedes Cotner Committee Room 217,
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on Tuesday, October 21, 2014, at 9:30 a.m., to
consider the following ordinances
now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 1468-12.
By Council Members Cleveland
and Mitchell.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of lands located on the
north side of Morgan at E. 68th
Street to E. 76th Street to SemiIndustry
(Map
Change
Number
2419).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Anthony Brancatelli, Chair
Committee on Development,
Planning and Sustainability
October 8, 2014 and October 15, 2014

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.

The City Record

32
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2014
File No. 117-14 — Police Impound
Lot 2 Roof Replacement, for the
Division of Architecture and Site
Development, Department of Public Works and the Mayor’s Office
of Capital Projects, as authorized
by Section 185.01 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) ONLY IN THE FORM OF
A CASHIER’S CHECK OR A
MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2014 AT 10:00
A.M. CLEVELAND CITY HALL,
ROOM
517A,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
File No. 119-14 — 2015 Ready MixConcrete, for the various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, as authorized

by Ordinance No. 1193-14, passed
by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, September 22, 2014.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2014
AT 1:30 P.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, THE DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES, ROOM
128, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
October 8, 2014 and October 15, 2014
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2014
File No. 116-14 — Highland Park
Mausoleum Hazardous Conditions
Abatement, for the Division of
Architecture and Site Development,
Department
of
Public
Works and the Mayor’s Office of
Capital Projects, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 537-12, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, May 14, 2012.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) ONLY IN THE FORM OF
A CASHIER’S CHECK OR A
MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2014
AT 1:00 P.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL,
CONFERENCE
ROOM
517A, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
File No. 118-14 — 2014 Cellular Wireless (Re-bid), for the Division of
Information Technology and Services, Department of Finance, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 30514, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, March 17, 2014.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
MONDAY,
OCTOBER 20, 2014 AT 10:00 A.M.
205
ST.
CLAIR,
ROOM
307,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44113.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
October 8, 2014 and October 15, 2014

October 15, 2014
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2014
AT 3:00 P.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, ROOM 514, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
October 8, 2014 and October 15, 2014
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2014
File No. 123-14 — Automotive and
Truck Parts and Service, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2014 AT 11:00
A.M. THE DIVISION OF WATER
RED
POLLUTION
CONTROL,
ROOM,
12302
CONFERENCE
KIRBY AVENUE, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44108.
October 15, 2014 and October 22, 2014
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2014
File No. 121-14 — Purchase of Labor
and
Materials
Necessary
to
Repair, Replace or Maintain Various Types of Valves, Actuators,
and Appurtenances, for the Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 850-14, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, August 20, 2014.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDAMEETING
TORY
PRE-BID
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2014
AT 10:00 A.M. CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
2ND FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE ROOM, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
October 15, 2014 and October 22, 2014
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2014
File No. 122-14 — Labor and Materials
for
Maintenance,
Repair,
Enhance and/or Replacement of
Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning
Systems,
Including
Rental for the Various Divisions
of The Department of Public Utilities (Re-Bid), for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1340-13, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, November 11, 2013.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2014
AT 11:00 A.M. CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
2ND FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE ROOM, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
October 15, 2014 and October 22, 2014

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2014
File No. 120-14 — 2014-2015 City
Wide Unarmed, Uniformed Security Guards Services, for the various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 113014, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, September 22,
2014.

1502

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 1334-14.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objections to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at

October 15, 2014
11619 Lorain Avenue, 1st floor and
basement and repealing Resolution
Nos. 1023-12, 1059-13 and 890-14, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit to Cyber Weekend,
Ltd., DBA Grzejkas Place, 1st floor
and basement, 11619 Lorain Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent
Number 1869990 by Resolution No.
1023-12 adopted by the Council on
August 8, 2012; Resolution No. 105913 adopted by the Council on August
14, 2013; and Resolution No. 890-14
adopted by the Council on July 16,
2014; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objections to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objections to the
renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit to Cyber Weekend,
Ltd., DBA Grzejkas Place, 1st floor
and basement, 11619 Lorain Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent
Number 1869990 by Resolution No.
1023-12 adopted by the Council on
August 8, 2012; Resolution No. 1059-13
adopted by the Council on August 14,
2013; and Resolution No. 890-14 adopted by the Council on July 16, 2014, containing such objections, be and the
same are hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 6, 2014.
Effective October 7, 2014.

Res. No. 1337-14.
By Council Members Kelley, Cleveland, Pruitt, Zone, Sweeney and Cimperman.
An emergency resolution supporting the clemency application of
Benny Bonanno.
Whereas, Benny Bonanno is applying for clemency for a 1995 conviction; and
Whereas, after his release in 1996,
Mr. Bonanno served 200 hours of
community
service
and
became
employed by Minute-Men Staffing
where, after 3 years, he was promoted to Director of Marketing;
while at Minute-Men, Mr. Bonanno
began a program to recruit potential
employees from half-way houses;
and
Whereas, in 1999, Bonanno joined
Pubco Corporation where he is currently employed as Vice President
of Sales and Director of Marketing;
in this position, he was instrumental in obtaining an industrial development bond of over 3 million dollars for the purchase of new manufacturing equipment which in turn
created community jobs; and

The City Record
Whereas, since 2003, Bonanno has
been
involved
with
the
Second
Chance Program, an organization
that tries to employ those that are
hard to place or have had run-ins
with the law; and
Whereas, in 2007, Bonanno’ s
record was expunged; and
Whereas, since his return to society, Benny Bonanno has consistently demonstrated his commitment to
the betterment of the community, to
empowering the economically disadvantaged and to giving deserving
individuals a second chance; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the clemency application of
Benny Bonanno.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit a copy of this
resolution to the Ohio Adult Parole
Authority.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 6, 2014.
Effective October 7, 2014.

Res. No. 1344-14.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit at 3855-57 Pearl Road,
1st floor and basement and repealing
Resolution No. 878-14, objecting to
said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D1,
D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to
Reid & Ivaskovic, LLC, 3855-57 Pearl
Road, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent No.
7279515 by Resolution No. 878-14
adopted by the Council on July 16,
2014; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit to Reid &
Ivaskovic, LLC, 3855-57 Pearl Road,
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio 44109, Permanent No. 7279515, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 878-14, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency

1503

33
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 6, 2014.
Effective October 7, 2014.

Ord. No. 306-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment
Financing Agreement with the County of Cuyahoga, Ohio, or its designee,
to partially finance the construction
of an approximately 600-room, 580,000
square feet Hotel, adjacent to the
Global Center for Health Innovation
and Cleveland Convention Center, to
be located at 1219 Ontario Street,
Cleveland; to provide for payments to
the Cleveland City School District;
and to declare certain improvements
to real property to be a public purpose.
Whereas, the City is engaged in
various urban redevelopment activities for the development and improvement of downtown Cleveland, including certain activities in support of the
Connecting Cleveland 2020 Plan, the
Cleveland Downtown Lakefront Plan
and the report of the group Plan Commission; and
Whereas, to continue to carry out
its urban redevelopment activities, to
eliminate deteriorating conditions
and to prevent the recurrence of those
conditions, the City entered into a
Cooperative Agreement dated as of
December 17, 2013 (the “Cooperative
Agreement”) with the County of
Cuyahoga, Ohio (the “County”) and
the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port
Authority (the “Port Authority”) that
provided for undertaking certain
cooperative actives including financing, constructing, owning and operating a public hotel to be built on publicly-owned land adjacent to the Global Center for Health Innovation and
Cleveland Convention Center and the
City’s Mall B (the “Hotel Project”)
which cooperative activities have
been determined to be a proper public
purpose of the City; and
Whereas, to further carry out those
urban redevelopment activities and to
provide for the Hotel Project pursuant to the terms of the Cooperative
Agreement, and to satisfy the requirements of Ohio Revised Code Section
5709.41, and under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1518-13, passed December 2, 2013, the City acquired from the
County certain property described
[on Exhibit A attached hereto] (the
“Property”) and the City has conveyed the Property to the Port
Authority prior to the adoption of this
ordinance; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Ohio Revised Code, improvements
to real property may be declared to be
a public purpose where fee title to the
real property was, at one time, held by
the City of Cleveland and the real
property is then leased or conveyed
by the City; and

The City Record

34
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Ohio Revised Code, the improvements declared to be a public purpose
may be exempt from real property
taxation; and
Whereas, the City has determined
that it is necessary and appropriate
and in the best interest of carrying
out its public purposes as part of its
cooperative activities and in the best
interests of the City to provide for
annual service payments in lieu of
taxes with respect to the Property
(“Service Payments”) pursuant to Sections 5709.41 to 5709.43 of the Ohio
Revised Code; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Ohio Revised Code, the exemption
may exceed 75% of the improvements
for up to 30 years when a portion of
the Service Payments so collected are
distributed to the Cleveland Metropolitan School District (“District”) in an
amount equal to the amount the District would have received had the
improvement not been exempt; and
Whereas, the District has been notified of the City’s intent to declare
improvements to be a public purpose,
in
compliance
with
Sections
5709.41(C)(4) and 5709.83 of the Ohio
Revised Code; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to and in
accordance with the provisions of
Ohio Revised Code Section 5709.41,
this Council hereby finds and determines that 100% of the increase in
assessed value of the Property subsequent to its acquisition by the City
(which increase in assessed value is
hereinafter
referred
to
as
the
“Improvement” as defined in Section
5709.41) will be a public purpose, and
said Improvement is hereby declared
to be exempt from real property taxation commencing on the effective date
of this ordinance and ending after the
Improvements have been exempted

from real property taxation for 30
years, all in accordance with the
requirements of Ohio Revised Code
Sections 5709.41 and 5709.42.
Section 2. That, as provided in Section 5709.42 of the Revised Code, the
owner or owners of the Improvement
are hereby required to and shall pay
the Service Payments to the Cuyahoga County Treasurer on or before
the final dates for payment of real
property taxes. Those Service Payments shall be distributed to the District, in an amount equal to the
amounts the District would otherwise
receive as real property tax payments
derived from the Improvement absent
the exemption provided for in this
ordinance, and to the City, all remaining amounts for further deposit in the
urban redevelopment tax increment
equivalent fund established in Section 3 hereof. This Council hereby
authorizes the Mayor, Director of
Finance, Director of Economic Development, and Law Director, and other
appropriate officers of the City, to
provide such information and certifications, and execute and deliver or
accept delivery of such instruments,
as are necessary and incidental to collect those Service Payments, and to
make such arrangements as are necessary and proper for payment of the
Service Payments.
Section 3. That under Section
5709.43 of the Revised Code, there is
established an Urban Redevelopment
Tax Increment Equivalent Fund (the
“Fund”) into which shall be deposited
the Service Payments distributed to
the City with respect to the Improvement on the Property, by or on behalf
of the County Treasurer as provided
in Section 5709.42 of the Revised Code.
One hundred percent (100%) of the
moneys distributed to the City shall
be deposited in the Fund and shall be
used for the purpose of funding Hotel
Project debt and, consistent with the
Cooperative Agreement, delivered to
the County, or as otherwise directed
to the County, promptly following
receipt by the City of each payment.
The Fund shall remain in existence so

October 15, 2014
long as such service payments are collected, after which the Fund may be
dissolved in accordance with Section
5709.43.
Section 4. That, pursuant to Section
5709.41 of the Ohio Revised Code, the
Clerk of this Council is hereby directed to deliver a copy of this Ordinance
to the Director of the Development
Services Agency of the State of Ohio
(“DSA”) within fifteen days after its
passage. On or before March 31 of
each year that the exemption set forth
in Section 1 hereof remains in effect,
the Clerk or other authorized officer
of this City shall prepare and submit
to the Director of the DSA the status
report
required
under
Section
5709.41(E) of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement or agreements with the owner or owners of
the Property that may be necessary or
desirable to provide for the exemption
and service payments described in
this ordinance, including agreements
securing the payments described in
this ordinance, which agreement or
agreements shall contain terms consistent with the executive summary
which has been placed in File No. 30614-A.
Section 6. That it is found and determined that all formal actions of this
Council concerning and relating to
the passage of this ordinance were
adopted in open meetings of this
Council, and any of its committees
that resulted in formal action were in
meetings open to the public in compliance with the law.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 6, 2014.
Effective October 7, 2014.

Ord. No. 834-14.
By Council Members K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Crown Castle NG East
Inc. to encroach into the public right-of-way with 23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) to be attached to Cleveland Public Power utility poles and City of Cleveland traffic signal poles (by separate permission of the poles’
owners) together with 23 ground cabinets and electrical duct banks.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of Council, to Crown Castle NG East Inc., 2000 Corporate Drive, Canonburg, PA 15317 (“Permittee”), to encroach into the
public right-of-way of various streets by installing, using, and maintaining 23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) to be attached to Cleveland Public Power utility poles and City of Cleveland traffic-signal poles (by separate permission of the poles’ owners) together with 23 ground cabinets and electrical duct banks, at the locations more fully described as follows:
Name
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node

Crown BUN
CL001
CL002
CL003
CL004
CL005
CL006
CL007

918969
918970
918971
918966
918967
918963
918964

Address
3410 E. 114th St.
3202 E. 117th St.
12975 Imperial Ave.
3791 E. 126th St.
11511 Clarebird Ave.
3488 E. 142nd St.
3341 E. 137th St.

1504

Lat

Long

41.4659583
41.4714500
41.4728889
41.4558017
41.4585520
41.4647662
41.4682442

-81.6042278
-81.6017556
-81.5920611
-81.5953163
-81.6032102
-81.5834897
-81.5874127

The City Record

October 15, 2014
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node
Node

CL008
CL009
CL010
CL011
CL012
CL013
CL014
CL015
CL018
CL019
CL020
CL021
CL022

918968
918965
918972
918973
918974
918975
918976
918977
918954
918958
928952
918953
918955

Node CL023
Node CL024
Node CL025

918956
918959
918957

35

13581 Horner Ave.
41.4558739
-81.5877482
3671 E. 143rd St.
41.4595559
-81.5822668
11602 Kensington Ave.
41.4498662
-81.7680281
12799 Wayland Ave.
41.4504806
-81.7760255
13311 Courtland Ave.
41.4456071
-81.7827300
4242 W. 134th St.
41.4393891
-81.7835120
13327 Puritas Ave.
41.433314
-81.7839330
4600 W. 127th St.
41.42825355
-81.7774194
1910 Carter Rd.
41.4930696
-81.6969572
1099 W. 9th St.
41.5017361
-81.7029111
1200 Lakeside Ave.
41.5066619
-81.6890753
1700 E. 9th St.
41.5020699
-81.6885757
Location to be confirmed and approved by Division of
Engineering and Construction
41.4858667
-81.6996278
1802 Robert Lockwood Jr. Dr.
1329 W. 9th St.
41.4988611
-81.7002444
608 Prospect Ave.
41.4984333
-81.6886222

Section 2. That Permittee may assign the permit only with the written consent of the Director of Capital Projects. That nothing in this ordinance grants or shall be considered to grant to Permittee any right, privilege, or
permission to use, or to attach or affix any object to, poles; Permittee shall obtain such permission from the
respective pole owner.
Section 3. That the encroaching objects permitted by this ordinance shall conform to plans and specifications
first approved by the Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain all other required
permits, including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the encroachments.
Section 4. That the Director of Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when, in the opinion of the Director of Law, a prospective Permittee has properly indemnified the City against any loss that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 5. That the Permit shall reserve reasonable right of entry to the encroachment location to the City.
Section 6. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 6, 2014.
Effective October 7, 2014.

Ord. No. 982-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 1105-13, passed September 23, 2013,
relating to the public improvement of
cleaning, cement mortar lining, and
replacing various distribution water
mains in 2014 and 2015.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section
1 of Ordinance No. 1105-13, passed September 23, 2013, are amended to read
as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of cleaning, cement
mortar lining, structural lining, and
replacing various distribution water
mains in 2014 and 2015; and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more public improvement contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it
is determined to make the public
improvement of cleaning, cement
mortar lining, structural lining, and
replacing various distribution water
mains in the City of Cleveland in 2014
and 2015, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, by one
or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after

competitive bidding upon a unit basis
for the improvement.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1105-13,
passed September 23, 2013, are
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 6, 2014.
Effective October 7, 2014.

Ord. No. 1187-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more contracts without competitive bidding with Hach
Company to maintain, service, calibrate, refurbish, and test various scientific and in-line process analytical
instruments used to monitor the
drinking water purification process
manufactured by Hach Company, for
the Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of two
years, with a one-year option to
renew, exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for

1505

the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council has
determined that the within commodities are non-competitive and cannot
be secured from any source other than
Hach Company. Therefore the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written contracts
with Hach Company on the basis of
its proposal dated July 31, 2014, for a
period of two years, with a one-year
option to renew, exercisable through
additional legislative authority, to
maintain, service, calibrate, refurbish, and test various scientific and
in-line process analytical instruments
used to monitor the drinking water
purification process manufactured by
Hach Company, to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 52 SF 001 and from
funds appropriated in 2015 and 2016
for this purpose, RQS 2002, RL 2014-66.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 6, 2014.
Effective October 7, 2014.

36
Ord. No. 1203-14.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance ratifying
and approving the emergency repair
of the Ridgeland Circle sewer and stabilization of the slope in accordance
with the Mayor’s Emergency Repair
letter of July 16, 2014.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council ratifies
and approves the repair of the Ridgeland Circle sewer and stabilization of
the slope authorized under Section
181.12 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, on July 16, 2014
and ratifies the payment to Nerone &
Sons, Inc. for the repair from Fund No.
54 SF 001.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 6, 2014.
Effective October 7, 2014.

Ord. No. 1330-14.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance designating Holly Hill Drive between Lee
Road and East 176th Street with a secondary and honorary designation of
“Michael Debose, Sr. Drive”.
Whereas, the citizens of Cleveland
want to recognize Michael Debose, Sr.
with a street sign designation of
“Michael Debose, Sr. Drive”; and,
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Holly Hill Drive
between Lee Road and East 176th
Street is designated with a secondary
and honorary designation of “Michael
Debose, Sr. Drive”.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Passed October 6, 2014.
Effective October 7, 2014.

Ord. No. 1331-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance to rename
the Madison Avenue pedestrian
bridge “Father Robert Begin Bridge”.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Madison Avenue
pedestrian
bridge
be
renamed
“Father Robert Begin Bridge”.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 6, 2014.
Effective October 7, 2014.

Ord. No. 1332-14.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for The Bernie Shuffle, on
November 1, 2014.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
The Bernie Shuffle, on November 1,
2014, start: Voinovich Park; East 9th
south to Lakeside; Lakeside east to
East 18th; East 18th south to St. Clair;
St. Clair west to West 6th; West 6th
north to Lakeside; Lakeside east to
West 3rd; West 3rd north to Erieside;
Erieside east to East 9th; East 9th
north to Voinovich Park—finish line;
provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may
be closed as determined by the Chief
of Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit
shall further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 6, 2014.
Effective October 7, 2014.

Ord. No. 1333-14.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the City Planning
Commission to enter into an agreement with the St. Clair Superior

1506

October 15, 2014
Development Corporation for the AsiaTown Cultural Center feasibility
Study through the use of Ward 10
Neighborhood Capital Funds, and
repealing Ordinance No. 1258-14,
passed September 29, 2014.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of the City Planning
Commission be authorized to enter
into an agreement with the St. Clair
Superior Development Corporation
for the AsiaTown Cultural Center
Feasibility Study for the public purpose of creating a new AsiaTown
Community and Cultural Center that
will serve the Asian-American community and be used to hold events
that promote the Asian culture in the
city of Cleveland through the use of
Ward 10 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $5,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That Ordinance No. 125814, passed September 29, 2014, is hereby repealed.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 6, 2014.
Effective October 7, 2014.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, October 13, 2014
9:30 a.m.
Municipal Services & Properties
Committee: Present: K. Johnson,
Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, J. Johnson, Reed. Authorized
Absence: Cummins, Dow.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane,
Mitchell, Pruitt. Authorized Absence:
Zone.
Wednesday, October 15, 2014
10:00 a.m.
Safety Committee: Present in Safety: Zone, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Cimperman,
Dow,
K.
Johnson,
Keane, Polensek.

The City Record

October 15, 2014

37

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Bed Bug Assistance Program — Acme Exterminating Company, Inc. — professional services —
contracts (O 1188-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
Western Reserve Area Agency on Aging Programs, 2015 — Western Reserve Area
Agency on Aging — Grants (O 1126-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1481

Agreements
Amend Ord. 608-14 — Accept Funding for Environmental Crimes Task Force — Combat Illegal
Dumping in the City — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District — Safety Department
(O 1252-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
AsiaTown Cultural Center Feasibility Study — New AsiaTown Community and Cultural Center —
St. Clair Superior Development Corporation — repeal Ord. 1258-14 — City Planning
Commission (Ward 10 NCF) (O 1333-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
Cosmetology Training Program — Professional School of Cosmetology — Community
Development Department (Ward 07 CRF) (O 1370-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1479

AIDS
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2015-2017 — Academy of Educational Development —
Grants — Ohio Department of Health (O 1345-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1474

Appreciation
Harper, Maureen (R 1378-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1474

Banners
St. Wendelin Parish — Columbus Ave. — Oct. 15 to Nov. 14 — Church events — Capital Projects
Office (Ward 03) (O 1366-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1478

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Ashland Road, 2175 (Ward 5) – Sandusky Solutions LLC, owner — appeal postponed to
10/22/14 on 10/8/14 (Doc. A-154-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bridge Avenue, 5909 (Ward 15) – Patrick and Nancy Rutti, owners — appeal adopted
on 10/8/14 (Doc. A-129-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cedar Avenue, 9808-9818 (Ward 6) – Dorothy L. Fort, owner — appeal adopted on 10/8/14
(Doc. A-108-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chickasaw Avenue, 18910 (Ward 8) – Joseph W. Schutt, owner — appeal withdrawn on 10/8/14
(Doc. A-152-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Claasen Avenue, 6913 (Ward 12) – Robert Childs, owner — appeal adopted on 10/8/14
(Doc. A-143-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 101st Street, 1819 (Ward 7) – Case Western Reserve University, owner — appeal
resolved on 10/8/14 (Doc. A-175-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 116th Street, 486 (Ward 10) – Ken & Ze Juan Zhu Lee, owners — appeal adopted
on 10/8/14 (Doc. A-139-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 119th Street, 2789 (Ward 6) – Aola Pempton, owner — appeal resolved on 10/8/14
(Doc. A-159-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 120th Street, 2823 (Ward 6) – Bernita C. Sherrell, owner — appeal resolved on
10/8/14 (Doc. A-151-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 125th Street, 2816 (Ward 6) – Sherri and Sandra Sullins, owner — appeal resolved
on 10/8/14 (Doc. A-155-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 128th Street, 2813 (Ward 6) – Byron Waldorf, owner — appeal adopted on 10/8/14
(Doc. A-136-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 161st Street, 420 (Ward 8) – Northeast Shores Development Corporation, owner —
appeal adopted on 10/8/14 (Doc. A-157-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 91st Street, 3736 (Ward 2) – Willie Ronald Brooks, owner — appeal adopted on
10/8/14 (Doc. A-132-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East Park Drive, 17610 (Ward 8) – Bruce A. Kotnik, owner — appeal resolved on 10/8/14
(Doc. A-150-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Road, 7527 (Ward 5) – Farid Nagib, owner — appeal resolved on 10/8/14 (Doc. A-153-14)
Lake Avenue, 10109 (Ward 15) – Parkway Manner LLC, owner — appeal withdrawn on 10/8/14
(Doc. A-137-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lipton Avenue, 17209 (Ward 1) – Salathiel Carter and Beverly Johnson, contractor/owner —
appeal resolved on 10/8/14 (Doc. A-160-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1507

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1501

The City Record

38

Muskoka Avenue, 19602 (Ward 8) – Elizabeth Bilicic, owner — appeal resolved on 10/8/14
(Doc. A-177-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Notre Dame Avenue, 11012 (Ward 6) – Tian Jin LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 10/8/14
(Doc. A-158-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Drive, 4087 (Ward 17) – Joseph Coreno, owner — appeal adopted on
10/8/14 (Doc. A-148-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton Road, 2571 (Ward 3) – Steven & Sherri Brown, owner — appeal adopted on 10/8/14
(Doc. A-131-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. Schaaf Road, 1300 (Ward 12) – Lisa Cortese, owner — appeal adopted on 10/8/14
(Doc. A-125-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 23rd Place, 3303 (Ward 14) – Khalid Qureshi, owner — appeal resolved on
10/8/14 (Doc. A-146-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 65th Street, 1942 (Ward 15) – Cleveland Housing Solutions, owner — appeal resolved
on 10/8/14 (Doc. A-156-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wilton Avenue, 13312 (Ward 16) – Martin Kirkwood, owner — appeal adopted on 10/8/14
(Doc. A-149-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

October 15, 2014
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1501

Board of Control — Board of Control
Easement rights of City property located at Cleveland Hopkins Airport — per Ord. 730-14
to Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company — Division of Purchases
and Supplies, Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 483-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1485

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Easement rights of City property located at Cleveland Hopkins Airport — per Ord. 730-14
to Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company — Division of Purchases
and Supplies, Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 483-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1485

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Ridge Road Ring Bus Project — per Ord. 556-08 to The Ryan Company, Inc. — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 474-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484

Board of Control — Easements
Easement rights of City property located at Cleveland Hopkins Airport — per Ord. 730-14
to Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company — Division of Purchases
and Supplies, Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 483-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1485

Board of Control — Finance Department
Accounts receivable management and software license agreement — amend BOC Res. 1593-13
(BOC Res. 473-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
Easement rights of City property located at Cleveland Hopkins Airport — per Ord. 730-14
to Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company — Division of Purchases and Supplies
(BOC Res. 483-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1485

Board of Control — North Coast Harbor
Transient Marina design/build services at North Coast Harbor — amend BOC Res. 430-14 —
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 482-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1485

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Planning, engineering, and design services — per Ord. 815-12 to Delta Airport Consultants
(BOC Res. 481-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1485
Planning, engineering, and design services — per Ord. 815-12 to URS Corporation
(BOC Res. 480-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1485
Transient Marina design/build services at North Coast Harbor — amend BOC Res. 430-14
(BOC Res. 482-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1485

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Accounts receivable management and software license agreement — amend BOC Res. 1593-13
(BOC Res. 473-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Diving and underwater inspection services — per Ord. 1109-13 to Lake Erie Ship Repair &
Fabrication LLC — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 478-14) . . . . . . .
Planning, engineering, and design services — per Ord. 815-12 to Delta Airport Consultants —
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 481-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Planning, engineering, and design services — per Ord. 815-12 to URS Corporation — Dept.
of Port Control (BOC Res. 480-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transient Marina design/build services at North Coast Harbor — amend BOC Res. 430-14 —
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 482-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1508

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1485
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1485
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1485

October 15, 2014

The City Record

39

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Milligan Avenue Sewer Project — per Ord. 615-13 to Triad Engineering & Contracting Co. —
Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 479-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484
Ridge Road Ring Bus Project — per Ord. 556-08 to The Ryan Company, Inc. — Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 474-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Diving and underwater inspection services — per Ord. 1109-13 to Lake Erie Ship Repair &
Fabrication LLC — Division of Water (BOC Res. 478-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Milligan Avenue Sewer Project — per Ord. 615-13 to Triad Engineering & Contracting Co. —
Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 479-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ridge Road Ring Bus Project — per Ord. 556-08 to The Ryan Company, Inc. — Division
of Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 474-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Service Fittings, items 1-25, 31-35, 37 and 38 — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Trumbull
Industries, Inc. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 475-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Service Fittings, items 26-30 — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to HD Supply Waterworks, Ltd. —
Division of Water (BOC Res. 476-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Service Fittings, items 36 and 39 — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to The Cleveland Plumbing Supply
Co. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 477-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Easement rights of City property located at Cleveland Hopkins Airport — per Ord. 730-14
to Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 483-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1485

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Diving and underwater inspection services — per Ord. 1109-13 to Lake Erie Ship Repair &
Fabrication LLC — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 478-14) . . . .
Service Fittings, items 1-25, 31-35, 37 and 38 — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Trumbull
Industries, Inc. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 475-14) . . . . . .
Service Fittings, items 26-30 — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to HD Supply Waterworks, Ltd. —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 476-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Service Fittings, items 36 and 39 — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to The Cleveland Plumbing Supply
Co. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 477-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484

Board of Control — Water Division
Diving and underwater inspection services — per Ord. 1109-13 to Lake Erie Ship Repair &
Fabrication LLC — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 478-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Service Fittings, items 1-25, 31-35, 37 and 38 — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Trumbull
Industries, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 475-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Service Fittings, items 26-30 — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to HD Supply Waterworks, Ltd. —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 476-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Service Fittings, items 36 and 39 — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to The Cleveland Plumbing Supply
Co. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 477-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Milligan Avenue Sewer Project — per Ord. 615-13 to Triad Engineering & Contracting Co. —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 479-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Mobile Food Shop at Dock 32 — appeal dismissed on 10/13/14 (Cal. 14-179) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mobile Food Shop at Coast Guard Lots #9 & #10 — appeal dismissed on 10/13/14 (Cal. 14-180) .
Auburn Avenue, 1201, Parking and Common Area (Ward 3) – City of Cleveland Land
Reutilization, owner, and Chelsea Investment Partners, prospective purchaser —
appeal heard on 10/13/14 (Cal. 14-117) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Auburn Avenue, 1201, Unit 1 (Ward 3) – Chelsea Investment Partners, owner — appeal heard
on 10/13/14 (Cal. 14-118) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Auburn Avenue, 1201, Unit 2 (Ward 3) – Chelsea Investment Partners, owner — appeal heard
on 10/13/14 (Cal. 14-119) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Auburn Avenue, 1201, Unit 3 (Ward 3) – Chelsea Investment Partners, owner — appeal
withdrawn on 10/13/14 (Cal. 14-120) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Auburn Avenue, 1201, Unit 4 (Ward 3) – Chelsea Investment Partners, owner — appeal heard
on 10/13/14 (Cal. 14-121) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Auburn Avenue, 1201, Unit 5 (Ward 3) – Chelsea Investment Partners, owner — appeal heard
on 10/13/14 (Cal. 14-122) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Auburn Avenue, 1201, Unit 6 (Ward 3) – Chelsea Investment Partners, owner — appeal heard
on 10/13/14 (Cal. 14-123) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Auburn Avenue, 1201, Unit 7 (Ward 3) – Chelsea Investment Partners, owner — appeal heard
on 10/13/14 (Cal. 14-124) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Auburn Avenue, 1201, Unit 8 (Ward 3) – Chelsea Investment Partners, owner — appeal heard
on 10/13/14 (Cal. 14-125) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1509

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499

The City Record

40

October 15, 2014

Auburn Avenue, 1201, Unit 9 (Ward 3) – Chelsea Investment Partners, owner — appeal
withdrawn on 10/13/14 (Cal. 14-126) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Avenue, 4207 (Ward 3) – Antonio Ortiz, owner — appeal postponed to 12/22/14
on 10/13/14 (Cal. 14-95) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 16625 (Ward 10) – SNS Properties, LLC, owner — appeal withdrawn on
10/13/14 (Cal. 14-77) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard Avenue, 10201 (Ward 2) – 9000 Aetna LLC, owner — appeal postponed to 11/3/14 on
11/3/14 (Cal. 14-162) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeshore Boulevard, 14620 (Ward 8) – Mike Chappel, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 10/13/14 (Cal. 14-176) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marquardt Avenue, 602 (Ward 3) – Cleveland Bricks, owner — appeal heard on 10/13/14
(Cal. 14-148) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marquardt Avenue, 604 (Ward 3) – Cleveland Bricks, owner — appeal heard on 10/13/14
(Cal. 14-149) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marquardt Avenue, 606 (Ward 3) – Cleveland Bricks, owner — appeal heard on 10/13/14
(Cal. 14-150) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marquardt Avenue, 608 (Ward 3) – Cleveland Bricks, owner — appeal heard on 10/13/14
(Cal. 14-151) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton Road, 3332 (Ward 14) – Sotre Properties, owner — appeal heard on 10/13/14
(Cal. 14-156) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 19th Street, 2039 (Ward 3) – Gia Hoosien, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 10/13/14 (Cal. 14-174) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1498
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Ashwood Road, 3173 (Ward 4) – Charlene Gilmore, owner — appeal to be heard on 11/3/14
(Cal. 14-195) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 79th Street, 2489 (Ward 6) – John Deadwyler, owner — appeal to be heard on 11/3/14
(Cal. 14-192) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 17045-17121 (Ward 10) – John Malone, owner — appeal to be heard on
11/3/14 (Cal. 14-188) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professor Avenue, 2342 (Ward 3) – 2342 Professor LLC, owner — appeal to be heard
on 11/3/14 (Cal. 14-190) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1498
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1498
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1498
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1498

Bridges
Madison Avenue pedestrian bridge — change name to Father Robert Begin Bridge (O 1331-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Capital Projects
Amend Ord. 623-14 — West 25th St., resurfacing (from 1-71 to Detroit Ave.) — public
improvement contracts — Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 14)
(O 1223-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
Clinton Ave., 3300 — Alexander R. Frondorf and Jason R. Bristol — easement — public
sidewalk (Ward 03) (O 1372-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1479
Crown Castle NG East Inc. — various locations — encroach into right-of-way —
23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 01,
02, 03, 04, 11 and 16) (O 834-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1504
Downtown area (CP01, CP12, CP13, CP14) — encroach into right-of-way — 4 way-finding signs
and electric duct banks — Positively Cleveland (Ward 03) (O 1351-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1477
Infrastructure capital improvements — apply — District One Public Works Integrating
Committee — rehabilitation of U.S. Route 42, Scranton Road/Carter Road, Clark
Avenue, and East 152nd Street (O 1348-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1475
Madison Avenue pedestrian bridge — change name to Father Robert Begin Bridge (O 1331-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
St. Wendelin Parish — Columbus Ave. — Oct. 15 to Nov. 14 — Church events — banners (Ward
03) (O 1366-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1478
The Bernie Shuffle — permit — Nov. 1st. (Ward 03) (O 1332-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
The Cleveland Turkey Trot — permit — Nov. 27 — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03) (O 1367-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1478
The Pigskin Classic — permit — Nov. 29 — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03) (O 1368-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1478
The Running the Bridge — permit — Oct. 19 — The Harness Cycle Shop (Ward 03) (O 1369-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1479
Turney Rd. (Warner Rd. to the Cleveland south corporation line) — resurfacing — consent —
Cuyahoga County (Ward 02) (O 1349-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1476
Un-named park roadway (Ansel Road ramp) — change name to St. Casimir Way — City Planning
Commission (Ward 08) (O 1492-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483-T
West 51st Pl. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 14)
(R 1232-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483-T

City Council
Supporting Benny Bonanno clemency application (R 1337-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503

City of Cleveland Bids
2014 Cellular Wireless (Re-bid) — Department of Finance — Division of Information
Technology and Services — per Ord. 305-14 — bid due October 29, 2014 (advertised
10/8/2014 and 10/15/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1502

1510

October 15, 2014

The City Record

2014-2015 City Wide Unarmed, Uniformed, Security Guards Services — Department of Finance —
per Ord. 1130-14 — bid due October 30, 2014 (advertised 10/8/2014 and 10/15/2014). . . . . . . . . . .
2015 Ready Mix-Concrete — Department of Finance — per Ord. 1193-14 — bid due October 23,
2014 (advertised 10/8/2014 and 10/15/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automotive and truck parts and service — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Water Pollution Control — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due October 31, 2014
(advertised 10/15/2014 and 10/22/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Highland Park Mausoleum Hazardous Conditions Abatement — Department of Public Works —
Division of Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord. 537-12 — bid due October
29, 2014 (advertised 10/8/2014 and 10/15/2014). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Labor and materials for maintenance, repair, enhance and/or replacement of heating,
ventilation and air conditioning systems, including rental for the various divisions
of The Department of Public Utilities (Re-bid) — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water — per Ord. 1340-13 — bid due September 14, 2014 (advertised
10/15/2014 and 10/22/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Police Impound Lot 2 Roof Replacement — Department of Public Works — Division
of Architecture and Site Improvement — per C.O. Sec. 185.01 — bid due October 23,
2014 (advertised 10/8/2014 and 10/15/2014) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchase of labor and materials necessary to repair, replace or maintain various types
of valves, actuators, and appurtenances — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Water — per Ord. 850-14 — bid due September 7, 2014 (advertised 10/15/2014
and 10/22/2014). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

41
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1502
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1502

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1502

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1502

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1502

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1502

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1502

City Planning Commission
AsiaTown Cultural Center Feasibility Study — New AsiaTown Community and Cultural
Center — agreement — St. Clair Superior Development Corporation — repeal Ord. 1258-14
(Ward 10 NCF) (O 1333-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
Crown Castle NG East Inc. — various locations — encroach into right-of-way —
23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) — Capital Projects Office (Ward(s) 01, 02, 03,
04, 11 and 16) (O 834-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1504
Dolloff Rd. And Ansen Ave. (Southwest Corner) — Change Use District (Ward 05) (O 1421-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
E. 49th St. (Between Jewett Ave. south to the railroad) — Change Use And Area District
(Ward 05) (O 1426-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
Hamm Ave. (Intersection of E. 52nd St.) — Change Use And Area Districts (Ward 05) (O 1427-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
Holly Hill Dr. (Lee Rd. and East 176th St.) — secondary and honorary designation of Michael
Debose, Sr. Drive — Works Department (Ward 01) (O 1330-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
Morgan Ave. (Between E. 68th St. to E. 76th St.) — Change Use District (Ward 05) (O 1468-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
North side of Marquardt Ave. (between West 7th St. and West 5th St.) — Establishing new
mapped setbacks on parcels (Ward 03) (O 994-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
Track Rd. (Between Nursery St. and House Ave.) — Change Use District (Ward 05) (O 1422-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
Track Rd. (West of E. 55 St. to Sawtell Rd.) — Change Use District (Ward 05) (O 1469-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
Un-named park roadway (Ansel Road ramp) — change name to St. Casimir Way — Capital
Project Office (Ward 08) (O 1492-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483-T
West 135th St. and Lorain Ave. (northeast corner) — change Use, Area and Height Districts
(Ward 16) (O 858-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
West 18th St. (south of Lorain Ave.) — Establishing new mapped setback on parcels
(Ward 03) (O 1199-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
West 19th St. (south of Lorain Ave.) — Establishing new mapped setback on parcels
(Ward 03) (O 1200-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
West 51st Pl. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects (Ward 14) (R 1232-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483-T

Cleveland Public Power (CPP)
Cleveland Public Power tax remittances — FY 2015 and 2016 — General Fund — Finance
Department (O 1350-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1477

Commemoration
Reed, Sr., Charles Henry (R 1377-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1474

Community Development
Cosmetology Training Program — Professional School of Cosmetology — agreement
(Ward 07 CRF) (O 1370-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1479

Concession Agreements
Food and beverage service in City Hall Rotunda — Works Department (O 1248-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
Food and beverage service in Cleveland City Hall Cafeteria — Works Department (O 1247-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482

Condolences
Wiggins, Sr., Lawrence Wesley (R 1373-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473

1511

The City Record

42

October 15, 2014

Congratulations
Berkman, Ronald M. (R 1374-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473
Perkins, Michael W. (R 1375-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473

Contracts
Amend Ord. 608-14 — Accept Funding for Environmental Crimes Task Force — Combat Illegal
Dumping in the City — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District — agreement — Safety
Department (O 1252-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. 623-14 — West 25th St., resurfacing (from 1-71 to Detroit Ave.) — public
improvement — Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 14) (O 1223-14) . . . . . . .
Bed Bug Assistance Program — Acme Exterminating Company, Inc. — professional services —
Aging Department (O 1188-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Body-worn camera system — Police Division — Safety Department (O 1128-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cosmetology Training Program — Professional School of Cosmetology — agreement —
Community Development Department (Ward 07 CRF) (O 1370-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution Water Mains — public improvements — Cleaning, Cement Mortar Lining and
Replacement, 2014 and 2015 — amend Ord. 1105-13 (O 982-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Emergency repair contract — Nerone & Sons, Inc. — Ridgeland Circle sewer and stabilization
of the slope (O 1203-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems maintenance and repair (O 1189-14) . . . . . . . .
Infrastructure capital improvements — apply — District One Public Works Integrating
Committee — rehabilitation of U.S. Route 42, Scranton Road/Carter Road, Clark
Avenue, and East 152nd Street — Capital Projects Office (O 1348-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
LeadsOnline LLC — professional services — on-line automated scrap materials and used goods
transaction information management system (O 1129-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Replacing existing underground lift stations with above-ground stations —
public improvement — Port Control Department (O 1352-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scientific and in-line process analytical instruments — drinking water purification process —
without competitive bid — Hach Company — Utilities Department (O 1187-14) . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Homeland Security Program, 2013 (GAP) — Cuyahoga County — Grants — Safety
Department (O 1127-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Turney Rd. (Warner Rd. to the Cleveland south corporation line) — resurfacing — consent —
Cuyahoga County (Ward 02) (O 1349-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicles equipment and accessories — Works Department (O 1224-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1479
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1505
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1475
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1478
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1505
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1476
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482

Cuyahoga County
Amend Ord. 608-14 — Accept Funding for Environmental Crimes Task Force — Combat Illegal
Dumping in the City — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District — agreement — Safety
Department (O 1252-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Convention Center Hotel — TIF — Economic Development Department (O 306-14) . .
State Homeland Security Program, 2013 (GAP) — Grants — Safety Department (O 1127-14) . . . .
Turney Rd. (Warner Rd. to the Cleveland south corporation line) — resurfacing — consent
(Ward 02) (O 1349-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1476

Easements
Clinton Ave., 3300 — Alexander R. Frondorf and Jason R. Bristol — easement — public
sidewalk — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1372-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1479

Economic Development Department
Cleveland Convention Center Hotel — TIF — Cuyahoga County (O 306-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503

Encroachments
Crown Castle NG East Inc. — various locations — right-of-way — 23 nodes (distributed
antenna systems) — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 01,
02, 03, 04, 11 and 16) (O 834-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1504
Downtown area (CP01, CP12, CP13, CP14) — right-of-way — 4 way-finding signs and electric
duct banks — Positively Cleveland — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1351-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1477

Finance Department
Cleveland Public Power tax remittances — FY 2015 and 2016 — General Fund (O 1350-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1477
Salary and wage schedules — Sections 35 and 41 — amend Ord. 385-14 and Ord. 739-14 —
Human Resources Department (O 1251-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482

Grants
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2015-2017 — Academy of Educational Development — Ohio
Department of Health (O 1345-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1474
Healthy Weight Program, 2014-15 — Health Department — Ohio Department of
Health (O 1346-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1474

1512

October 15, 2014

The City Record

Infrastructure capital improvements — apply — District One Public Works Integrating
Committee — rehabilitation of U.S. Route 42, Scranton Road/Carter Road, Clark
Avenue, and East 152nd Street — Capital Projects Office (O 1348-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Homeland Security Program, 2013 (GAP) — Cuyahoga County — Safety
Department (O 1127-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
STD Control Prevention Program, 2015-2017 — Ohio Department of Health (O 1347-14). . . . .
Western Reserve Area Agency on Aging Programs, 2015 — Western Reserve Area Agency
Aging (O 1126-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

43

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1475
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1474
on
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1481

Health Department
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2015-2017 — Academy of Educational Development —
Grants — Ohio Department of Health (O 1345-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1474
Healthy Weight Program, 2014-15 — Grants — Ohio Department of Health (O 1346-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1474
STD Control Prevention Program, 2015-2017 — Grants — Ohio Department of Health (O 1347-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1474

Human Resources Department
Salary and wage schedules — Sections 35 and 41 — amend Ord. 385-14 and Ord. 739-14 —
Finance Department (O 1251-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482

Illegal Dumping
Amend Ord. 608-14 — Accept Funding for Environmental Crimes Task Force — Combat Illegal
Dumping in the City — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District — agreement — Safety
Department (O 1252-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482

Leases
Vehicles equipment and accessories — Works Department (O 1224-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482

Liquor Permits
Broadway Ave., 6206 — stock application (Ward 12) (F 1360-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway Ave., 6206 (N/end) — objection to transfer of stock (Ward 12) (R 1379-14). . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Ave., 7402 — new application (Ward 15) (F 1354-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 200th St., 756 — objection to issuance (Ward 08) (R 1371-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd St., 863-871 — stock application (Ward 09) (F 1359-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Ave., 5106 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 15) (R 1363-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 11619 (1st fl. & bsmt.) — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1023-12,
1059-13, and 890-14 (Ward 11) (R 1334-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 12520 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 16) (F 1358-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 4506 (1st fl.) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res.
1015-14 (Ward 03) (R 1365-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Memphis Ave., 5517 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 13) (F 1357-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pearl Rd., 3855-57 (1st fl. & bsmt.) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal
Res. 878-14 — (Ward 12) (R 1344-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
S. Waterloo Rd., 19800 — stock application (Ward 08) (F 1361-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 5379 — objection to transfer of liquor license (Ward 10) (R 1380-14) . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 6201 — new application (Ward 10) (F 1356-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 6201 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 10) (F 1355-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 9th St., 1293 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 921-13 (Ward 03) (R 1364-14)

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1473
1481
1473
1480
1473
1479

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1502
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1480
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1503
1473
1481
1473
1473
1480

Mayor’s Office
Emergency repair contract — Nerone & Sons, Inc. — Ridgeland Circle sewer and stabilization
of the slope (O 1203-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Oath of Office
Burrows, Ph.D., Melissa K. — oath of office — Director — Equal Opportunity Office (F 1353-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473
Dumas, Sharon — oath of office — Interim Director — Utilities Department (F 1362-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473

Office of Equal Opportunity
Burrows, Ph.D., Melissa K. — oath of office — Director — Equal Opportunity Office (F 1353-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473

Ohio Department of Health
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2015-2017 — Academy of Educational Development —
Grants (O 1345-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1474
Healthy Weight Program, 2014-15 — Health Department — Grants (O 1346-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1474
STD Control Prevention Program, 2015-2017 — Grants (O 1347-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1474

1513

The City Record

44

October 15, 2014

Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
Amend Ord. 623-14 — West 25th St., resurfacing (from 1-71 to Detroit Ave.) — public
improvement contracts (Ward 14) (O 1223-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482

Permits
Crown Castle NG East Inc. — various locations — encroach into right-of-way —
23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 01, 02, 03, 04, 11 and 16) (O 834-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Downtown area (CP01, CP12, CP13, CP14) — encroach into right-of-way — 4 way-finding signs
and electric duct banks — Positively Cleveland — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03)
(O 1351-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Wendelin Parish — Columbus Ave. — Oct. 15 to Nov. 14 — Church events — banners —
Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1366-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Bernie Shuffle — Nov. 1st. (Ward 03) (O 1332-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Cleveland Turkey Trot — Nov. 27 — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03) (O 1367-14) . . . . . .
The Pigskin Classic — Nov. 29 — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03) (O 1368-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Running the Bridge — Oct. 19 — The Harness Cycle Shop (Ward 03) (O 1369-14) . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1504

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1477
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1478
1506
1478
1478
1479

Police Division
Body-worn camera system — contracts — Safety Department (O 1128-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482

Port Control Department
Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems maintenance and repair —
contracts (O 1189-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
Replacing existing underground lift stations with above-ground stations —
public improvement contracts (O 1352-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1478

Professional Services
Bed Bug Assistance Program — Acme Exterminating Company, Inc. — contracts — Aging
Department (O 1188-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
Body-worn camera system — Police Division — contracts — Safety Department (O 1128-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
LeadsOnline LLC — contracts — on-line automated scrap materials and used goods transaction
information management system (O 1129-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482

Public Hearing (Notices)
Morgan Ave. (Between E. 68th St. To E. 76th St.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 05) (O 1468-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1501

Public Improvements
Amend Ord. 623-14 — West 25th St., resurfacing (from 1-71 to Detroit Ave.) — contracts —
Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 14) (O 1223-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution Water Mains — contracts — Cleaning, Cement Mortar Lining and Replacement,
2014 and 2015 — amend Ord. 1105-13 (O 982-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Infrastructure capital improvements — apply — District One Public Works Integrating
Committee — rehabilitation of U.S. Route 42, Scranton Road/Carter Road, Clark
Avenue, and East 152nd Street — Capital Projects Office (O 1348-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Replacing existing underground lift stations with above-ground stations — contracts — Port
Control Department (O 1352-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Turney Rd. (Warner Rd. to the Cleveland south corporation line) — resurfacing — consent —
Cuyahoga County (Ward 02) (O 1349-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1505

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1475
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1478
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1476

Public Works
Food and beverage service in City Hall Rotunda — concession agreements (O 1248-14) . . . . . . .
Food and beverage service in Cleveland City Hall Cafeteria — concession agreements
(O 1247-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holly Hill Dr. (Lee Rd. and East 176th St.) — secondary and honorary designation of Michael
Debose, Sr. Drive — City Planning Commission (Ward 01) (O 1330-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicles equipment and accessories (O 1224-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482

Races
The Bernie Shuffle — permit — Nov. 1st. (Ward 03) (O 1332-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Cleveland Turkey Trot — permit — Nov. 27 — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03) (O 1367-14)
The Pigskin Classic — permit — Nov. 29 — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03) (O 1368-14) . . . . .
The Running the Bridge — permit — Oct. 19 — The Harness Cycle Shop (Ward 03) (O 1369-14) . .

1514

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1506
1478
1478
1479

October 15, 2014

The City Record

45

Recognition
Black Women’s Political Action Committee (R 1376-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473

Resolution Of Support
Supporting Benny Bonanno clemency application (R 1337-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Supporting Benny Bonanno clemency application (R 1337-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503

Safety Department
Amend Ord. 608-14 — Accept Funding for Environmental Crimes Task Force — Combat Illegal
Dumping in the City — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District — agreement (O 1252-14) . .
Body-worn camera system — Police Division — contracts (O 1128-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
LeadsOnline LLC — professional services — contracts — on-line automated scrap materials
and used goods transaction information management system (O 1129-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Homeland Security Program, 2013 (GAP) — Cuyahoga County — Grants (O 1127-14) . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482

Salaries
Salary and wage schedules — Sections 35 and 41 — amend Ord. 385-14 and Ord. 739-14 —
Finance Department — Human Resources Department (O 1251-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482

Sewers
Emergency repair contract — Nerone & Sons, Inc. — Ridgeland Circle sewer and stabilization
of the slope (O 1203-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

State of Ohio
Infrastructure capital improvements — apply — District One Public Works Integrating
Committee — rehabilitation of U.S. Route 42, Scranton Road/Carter Road, Clark
Avenue, and East 152nd Street — Capital Projects Office (O 1348-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1475

Street Vacation
West 51st Pl. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects — City Planning Commission
(Ward 14) (R 1232-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483-T

Streets — Name
Holly Hill Dr. (Lee Rd. and East 176th St.) — secondary and honorary designation of Michael
Debose, Sr. Drive — City Planning Commission — Works Department (Ward 01)
(O 1330-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
Un-named park roadway (Ansel Road ramp) — change name to St. Casimir Way — Capital
Project Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1492-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483-T

Tabled Legislation
West 51st Pl. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects — City Planning Commission
(Ward 14) (R 1232-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483-T
Un-named park roadway (Ansel Road ramp) — change name to St. Casimir Way — Capital
Project Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1492-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483-T

Taxes
Cleveland Convention Center Hotel — TIF — Economic Development Department —
Cuyahoga County (O 306-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503

Utilities Department
Cleveland Public Power tax remittances — FY 2015 and 2016 — General Fund — Finance
Department (O 1350-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution Water Mains — public improvements contracts — Cleaning, Cement Mortar Lining
and Replacement, 2014 and 2015 — amend Ord. 1105-13 (O 982-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dumas, Sharon — oath of office — Interim Director — Utilities Department (F 1362-14) . . . . . . . .
Emergency repair contract — Nerone & Sons, Inc. — Ridgeland Circle sewer and stabilization
of the slope (O 1203-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scientific and in-line process analytical instruments — drinking water purification process —
without competitive bid — Hach Company (O 1187-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1515

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1477
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1505
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1505

The City Record

46

October 15, 2014

Vehicles
Vehicles equipment and accessories — Works Department (O 1224-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482

Ward 01
Crown Castle NG East Inc. — various locations — encroach into right-of-way —
23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 01, 02, 03, 04, 11 and 16) (O 834-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1504
Holly Hill Dr. (Lee Rd. and East 176th St.) — secondary and honorary designation of Michael
Debose, Sr. Drive — City Planning Commission — Works Department (O 1330-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Ward 02
Crown Castle NG East Inc. — various locations — encroach into right-of-way —
23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 01, 02, 03, 04, 11 and 16) (O 834-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1504
Perkins, Michael W. — Congratulations (R 1375-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473
Turney Rd. (Warner Rd. to the Cleveland south corporation line) — resurfacing — consent —
Cuyahoga County (O 1349-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1476

Ward 03
Berkman, Ronald M. — Congratulations (R 1374-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Convention Center Hotel — TIF — Economic Development Department —
Cuyahoga County (O 306-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clinton Ave., 3300 — Alexander R. Frondorf and Jason R. Bristol — easement — public
sidewalk — Capital Projects Office (O 1372-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crown Castle NG East Inc. — various locations — encroach into right-of-way —
23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 01, 02, 03, 04, 11 and 16) (O 834-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Downtown area (CP01, CP12, CP13, CP14) — encroach into right-of-way — 4 way-finding signs
and electric duct banks — Positively Cleveland — Capital Projects Office
(O 1351-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 4506 (1st fl.) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res.
1015-14 — liquor permit (R 1365-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North side of Marquardt Ave. (between West 7th St. and West 5th St.) — Establishing new
mapped setbacks on parcels — City Planning Commission (O 994-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Wendelin Parish — Columbus Ave. — Oct. 15 to Nov. 14 — Church events — banners —
Capital Projects Office (O 1366-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Bernie Shuffle — permit — Nov. 1st. (O 1332-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Cleveland Turkey Trot — permit — Nov. 27 — Hermes Sports & Events (O 1367-14) . . . . . . .
The Pigskin Classic — permit — Nov. 29 — Hermes Sports & Events (O 1368-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Running the Bridge — permit — Oct. 19 — The Harness Cycle Shop (O 1369-14) . . . . . . . . . . .
West 18th St. (south of Lorain Ave.) — Establishing new mapped setback on parcels — City
Planning Commission (O 1199-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 19th St. (south of Lorain Ave.) — Establishing new mapped setback on parcels — City
Planning Commission (O 1200-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 9th St., 1293 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 921-13 — liquor permit
(R 1364-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1479

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1504

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1477
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1480
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1478
1506
1478
1478
1479

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1480

Ward 04
Crown Castle NG East Inc. — various locations — encroach into right-of-way —
23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 01, 02, 03, 04, 11 and 16) (O 834-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1504

Ward 05
Dolloff Rd. And Ansen Ave. (Southwest Corner) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (O 1421-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 49th St. (Between Jewett Ave. south to the Railroad) — Change Use And Area District —
City Planning Commission (O 1426-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hamm Ave. (Intersection of E. 52nd St.) — Change Use And Area Districts — City Planning
Commission (O 1427-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan Ave. (Between E. 68th St. to E. 76th St.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (O 1468-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Track Rd. (Between Nursery St. and House Ave.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (O 1422-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Track Rd. (West Of E. 55 St. to Sawtell Rd.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (O 1469-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483

Ward 07
Cosmetology Training Program — Professional School of Cosmetology — agreement —
Community Development Department (Ward 07 CRF) (O 1370-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1479
Reed, Sr., Charles Henry — Commemoration (R 1377-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1474

1516

October 15, 2014

The City Record

47

Ward 08
East 200th St., 756 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 1371-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1480
S. Waterloo Rd., 19800 — stock application — liquor permit (F 1361-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473
Un-named park roadway (Ansel Road ramp) — change name to St. Casimir Way — Capital
Project Office — City Planning Commission (O 1492-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483-T

Ward 09
East 93rd St., 863-871 — stock application — liquor permit (F 1359-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473
Wiggins, Sr., Lawrence Wesley — Condolence (R 1373-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473

Ward 10
AsiaTown Cultural Center Feasibility Study — New AsiaTown Community and Cultural
Center — agreement — St. Clair Superior Development Corporation — repeal Ord. 1258-14 —
City Planning Commission (Ward 10 NCF) (O 1333-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 5379 — objection to transfer of liquor license — liquor permit (R 1380-14) . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 6201 — new application — liquor permit (F 1356-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 6201 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1355-14) . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1506
1481
1473
1473

Ward 11
Crown Castle NG East Inc. — various locations — encroach into right-of-way —
23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 01, 02, 03, 04, 11 and 16) (O 834-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1504
Lorain Ave., 11619 (1st fl. & bsmt.) — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1023-12,
1059-13, and 890-14 — liquor permit (R 1334-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1502

Ward 12
Broadway Ave., 6206 — stock application — liquor permit (F 1360-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473
Broadway Ave., 6206 (N/end) — objection to transfer of stock — liquor permit (R 1379-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1481
Pearl Rd., 3855-57 (1st fl. & bsmt.) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal
Res. 878-14 — liquor permit (R 1344-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503

Ward 13
Black Women’s Political Action Committee — Recognition (R 1376-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473
Memphis Ave., 5517 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1357-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473

Ward 14
Amend Ord. 623-14 — West 25th St., resurfacing (from 1-71 to Detroit Ave.) — public
improvement contracts — Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) (O 1223-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
West 51st Pl. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects — City Planning Commission
(R 1232-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483-T

Ward 15
Detroit Ave., 7402 — new application — liquor permit (F 1354-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473
Franklin Ave., 5106 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1363-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1479
Madison Avenue pedestrian bridge — change name to Father Robert Begin Bridge (O 1331-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Ward 16
Crown Castle NG East Inc. — various locations — encroach into right-of-way —
23 nodes (distributed antenna systems) — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 01, 02, 03, 04, 11 and 16) (O 834-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harper, Maureen — Appreciation (R 1378-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 12520 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1358-14) . . . . . . . . . . .
West 135th St. and Lorain Ave. (northeast corner) — change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (O 858-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1504
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1474
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483

Water Division
Distribution Water Mains — public improvements contracts — Cleaning, Cement Mortar Lining
and Replacement, 2014 and 2015 — amend Ord. 1105-13 (O 982-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1505
Scientific and in-line process analytical instruments — drinking water purification process —
without competitive bid — Hach Company — Utilities Department (O 1187-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1505

Water Mains
Distribution Water Mains — public improvements contracts — Cleaning, Cement Mortar Lining
and Replacement, 2014 and 2015 — amend Ord. 1105-13 (O 982-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1505

1517

The City Record

48

October 15, 2014

Zoning
Dolloff Rd. And Ansen Ave. (Southwest Corner) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 05) (O 1421-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 49th St. (Between Jewett Ave. South to the Railroad) — Change Use And Area District —
City Planning Commission (Ward 05) (O 1426-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hamm Ave. (Intersection of E. 52nd St.) — Change Use And Area Districts — City Planning
Commission (Ward 05) (O 1427-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan Ave. (Between E. 68th St. to E. 76th St.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 05) (O 1468-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North side of Marquardt Ave. (between West 7th St. and West 5th St.) — Establishing new
mapped setbacks on parcels — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 994-14). . . . . . . . . .
Track Rd. (Between Nursery St. And House Ave.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 05) (O 1422-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Track Rd. (West Of E. 55 St. To Sawtell Rd.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 05) (O 1469-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 135th St. and Lorain Ave. (northeast corner) — change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (Ward 16) (O 858-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 18th St. (south of Lorain Ave.) — Establishing new mapped setback on parcels — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1199-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 19th St. (south of Lorain Ave.) — Establishing new mapped setback on parcels — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1200-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1518

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483

