The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

April the Twenty-Second, Two Thousand and Nine

Frank G. Jackson
Mayor

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Terrell H. Pruitt
Nathaniel K. Wilkes
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Mamie J. Mitchell
TJ Dow
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Joe Cimperman
Joseph Santiago
Brian J. Cummins
Kevin J. Kelley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
15
15
17
17
19
20
21
21
21
28
28

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..................................................3877 East 189th Street
44122
Nathaniel K. Wilkes ...........................................8410 Vineyard Avenue
44105
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................8323 Pulaski Avenue
44103
Sabra Pierce Scott.................................................1136 East 98th Street
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Roosevelt Coats ....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
44112
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Joe Cimperman..............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Joseph Santiago ...................................................3169 West 14th Street
44109
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Kevin J. Kelley ..............................................6608 Woodhaven Avenue
44144
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Natoya J. Walker, Interim Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Anjou Parekh, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNELAND HUMAN RESOURCES – Trudy Hutchinson, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Omayra G. Feliciano, Acting Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James
Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Joe Cimperman.
FAIR CAMPAIGN FINANCE COMMISSION – Chris Warren, C. Ellen Connally, Hillary S.
Taylor.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council
Member ____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; _________, Vice Chair; Daniel Conway, Doris
Honsa, Lisa Camacho.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Laura M. Bala, Chair; Jennifer
Coleman, Vice Chair; Robert N. Brown, Council Member Joe Cimperman, Thomas
Coffey, Robert Jackimowicz; Ari Maron, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John
Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
12A
Judge Emanuella Groves
13A
Judge Larry A. Jones
14B
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Anita Laster Mays
14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore
14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr.
12B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Michael John Ryan
12C
Judge Angela R. Stokes
15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak –
Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2009

Vol. 96

No. 4976

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2009
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Coats, Cummins, Mitchell,
Polensek, Pruitt, Santiago, Zone.

of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Cimperman.

City of Cleveland

WEDNESDAY — Alternating

PLAT

The City Record is available

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice Chair;
Cummins, Keane, Kelley, Polensek,
Santiago, Westbrook, Wilkes.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chair, Westbrook, Vice Chair, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Reed, Zone.

File No. 524-09.
Council Member Mitchell (Ward
6). Dedication and Easement Plat
for East 86th Street, East 89th Street
and Carnegie Avenue, S. E.
Approved by Planning Director;
Referred to Service Director; Committees on City Planning and Public Service. Received.

The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the

online at

www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2006-2009
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Johnson,
Chair; Wilkes, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek, Pruitt.
9:30 A.M. — Health & Human Services Committee: Brancatelli, Chair;
Cleveland, Vice Chair; Conwell, Kelley, Mitchell, Reed, Santiago.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Brady, Chair; Pruitt, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Johnson,
Polensek, Reed, Santiago, Wilkes.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Keane, Vice
Chair; Cimperman, Dow, Pierce Scott,
Reed, Wilkes.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland,
Coats, Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Pierce
Scott, Westbrook.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Pierce
Scott, Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair;
Brady, Cummins, Coats, Dow, Pruitt,
Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
Coats, Chair; Santiago, Vice Chair;
Conwell, Cummins, Johnson, Mitchell,
Pruitt.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation & Transportation Committee: Kelley, Chair;
Keane, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cleveland, Dow, Mitchell, Westbrook.

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland,
Kelley,
Pierce
Scott,
Polensek.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Kelley,
Mitchell,
Pierce
Scott,
Santiago,
Sweeney, Wilkes.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats, Chair; Pierce Scott, Kelley,
Sweeney, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, April 20, 2009
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Coats, Conwell, Dow, Johnson, Keane,
Kelley, Mitchell, Pierce Scott, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed, Santiago, Sweeney,
Westbrook and Wilkes.
Also present were Mayor Frank G.
Jackson; Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff; Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer; Valarie J. McCall, Chief
of Government Affairs; Chris Warren, Chief of Regional Development;
Monyka S. Price, Chief of Education;
Maureen Harper, Chief of Communications; Andrea V. Taylor, Press Secretary;
and
Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Smith,
Wasik,
Carroll,
Flask, Cox, Rush, Rybka, Fumich,
Brown, Interim Directors Walker
and Withers and Acting Director
Feliciano.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76
prayer was offered by Pastor Dean
Van Farowe of Calvary Reformed
Church, 1918 West 65th Street, located in Ward 17. Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Johnson, the reading of the minutes

693

File No. 525-09.
Council Member Mitchell (Ward
6). Dedication Plat for Roadway
Vacation and Relocation at East
93rd Street, located at East 93rd
Street Euclid Avenue to Chester
Avenue.
Approved by Planning Director;
Referred to Service Director; Committees on City Planning and Public Service. Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 526-09.
Re: 7974550, Liquor Agency Contract — Semaan Marketing, Inc.,
3230 East 93rd Street. (Ward 5). Received.
File No. 527-09.
Re: 7974550, C1, C2, D6, Stock
Transfer
Application
—
Semaan
Marketing, Inc., 3230 East 93rd
Street. (Ward 5). Received.
File No. 528-09.
Re: 9796599, C1 New Application —
Solomon H. Wulu, d.b.a. Solomon
Enterprise, 15509 Glencoe Avenue.
(Ward 11). Received.
File No. 529-09.
Re: 8658928, D4 New Application
— Studio 62nd Entertainment, Inc.,
d.b.a. Studio 62nd, 1030 East 62nd
Street. (Ward 13). Received.
OATH OF OFFICE
File No. 530-09.
From Ivan Lemuel Henderson —
Interim Assistant Director of Public
Utilities. Received.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 537-09.
From Council Member TJ Dow,
Ward 7 — Memo requesting to
recuse himself from voting on Ordinance No. 507-09. Received.

The City Record

4
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 531-09
“Gil” Steele.

—

John

Gilbert

CONGRATULATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 532-09 — Donald Carr —
70th Birthday.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 533-09—Terry Stewart.
Res. No. 534-09 — Dr. Jacklyn J.
Chisholm.
Res. No. 535-09—William W. Rowley.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 536-09 — Father’s Dream
Appliances.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 501-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance adopting
a City-wide Identity Theft Policy.
Whereas, the Fair and Accurate
Credit transactions Act of 2003, an
amendment to the Fair Credit Reporting Act, required rules regarding identity theft protection to be
promulgated; and
Whereas, those rules become effective May 1, 2009, and require
municipal utilities and other departments to implement an identity theft
program and policy; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the City of Cleveland has determined that the following policy is in the best interest
of the municipality and its citizens;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council authorizes the Director of Finance to
implement the following City-wide
Identity Theft Policy:
City of Cleveland Ohio
IDENTITY THEFT POLICY
SECTION 1: BACKGROUND
The Federal Trade Commission
established the Identity Theft Prevention Program to detect, prevent
and mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of a covered account or an existing covered
account and to provide for continued
administration of the Program in
compliance with Part 681 of Title 16

of the Code of Federal Regulations
implementing Sections 114 and 315
of the Fair and Accurate Credit
Transactions Act (FACTA) of 2003.
The risk to the City of Cleveland,
its employees, and customers from
data loss and identity theft is of significant concern to the City and can
only be reduced through the combined efforts of every employee and
contractor.
Definitions:
Identifying
information
means
any name or number that may be
used, alone or in conjunction with
any other information, to identify a
specific person, including: name,
address, telephone number, social
security number, date of birth, government-issued driver’s license or
identification number, alien registration number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer
identification number, unique electronic identification number, computer’s Internet Protocol address, or
routing code.
Identify theft means fraud committed or attempted using the identifying information of another person without authority.
Covered account means (i) An
account that the City offers or maintains, primarily for personal, family,
or household purposes, that involves
or is designed to permit multiple
payments or transactions, including
but not limited to utility accounts,
and any other account that the City
offers or maintains for which there
is a reasonably foreseeable risk to
customers or to the safety and
soundness of the City from identity
theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or litigation risks.
Credit means the right granted by
a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt or to incur debts and
defer its payment or to purchase
property or services and defer payment therefore.
Creditor means any person who
regularly extends, renews, or continues credit; any person who regularly arranges for the extension,
renewal, or continuation of credit; or
any assignee of an original creditor
who participates in the decision to
extend, renew, or continue credit
and includes utility companies and
telecommunications companies. Customer means a person that has a
covered account with a creditor.
Red Flag means a pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the possible existence of Identity Theft.
SECTION 2: PURPOSE
The City of Cleveland adopts this
Identity Theft policy to help protect
employees, customers, contractors
and the municipality from damages
related to the loss or misuse of sensitive information.
This policy will:
1. Define sensitive information;
2. Describe the physical security
of data when it is printed on paper;
3. Describe the electronic security
of data when stored and distributed;
and
4. Place the City of Cleveland in
compliance with state and federal

694

April 22, 2009
law regarding identity theft protection.
This policy enables the City to
help
protect
existing
customers,
reduce risk from identity fraud, and
minimize potential damage to the
City from fraudulent new accounts.
The program will help the City:
1. Identify risks that signify
potentially fraudulent activity within new or existing covered accounts;
2. Detect risks when they occur in
covered accounts;
3. Respond to risks to determine
if fraudulent activity has occurred
and act if fraud has been attempted
or committed; and
4. Update the program periodically, including reviewing the accounts
that are covered and the identified
risks that are part of the program.
SECTION 3: SCOPE
This policy applies to employees,
contractors, consultants, temporary
workers, and other workers at the
City, including all personnel affiliated with third parties.
Third-Party Service Providers used
by the City of Cleveland are required to exercise appropriate and
effective oversight of service provider arrangements.
SECTION
MATION

4:

SENSITIVE

INFOR-

A: Definition of Sensitive Information
Sensitive information is personal
information belonging to any customer, employee, contractor and includes the following items whether
stored in electronic or printed format:
1. Credit card information, including any of the following:
a. Credit card number (in part or
whole)
b. Credit card expiration date
c. Cardholder name
d. Cardholder address
2. Tax identification numbers, including:
a. Social Security number
b. Business identification number
c. Employer identification numbers
3. Payroll information, including,
among other information:
a. Paychecks
b. Pay stubs
4. Medical information for any
employee or customer, including but
not limited to:
a. Doctor names and claims
b. Insurance claims
c. Prescriptions
d. Any related personal medical
information
5. Other personal information belonging to any customer, employee,
or contractor, examples of which
include:
a. Date of birth
b. Address
c. Phone numbers
d. Maiden name
e. Names
f. Customer number
g. Small business account
h. Sole proprietorship account
i. Employer ID number

April 22, 2009
j. Loan program number for business or individuals administered by
the City of Cleveland.
B. City of Cleveland personnel are
encouraged to use common sense
judgment in securing confidential
information to the proper extent. If
an employee is uncertain of the sensitivity of a particular piece of
information, he/she should contact
their supervisor.
C. Hard Copy Distribution
Each employee and contractor
performing work for the City of
Cleveland will comply with the following policies:
1. File cabinets, desk drawers, overhead cabinets, and any other storage
space containing documents with
sensitive information will be locked
when not in use.
2. Storage rooms containing documents with sensitive information
and record retention areas will be
locked at the end of each workday
or when unsupervised.
3. Desks, workstations, work areas,
printers and fax machines, and common shared work areas will be
cleared of all documents containing
sensitive information when not in
use.
4. Whiteboards, dry-erase boards,
writing tablets, etc. in common
shared work areas will be erased,
removed, or shredded when not in
use.
5. When
documents
containing
sensitive information are to be discarded in accordance with the City’s
records retention policy, they will be
placed inside a locked shred bin or
immediately
shredded
using
a
mechanical cross cut or Department
of Defense (DOD)-approved shredding device.
D. Electronic Distribution
Each employee and contractor performing work for the City of Cleveland will comply with the following
policies:
1. Internally, sensitive information
may
be
transmitted
using
approved City of Cleveland e-mail.
All sensitive information must be
encrypted when stored in an electronic format.
2. Any sensitive information sent
externally must be encrypted and
password protected and only to approved recipients. Additionally, a
statement such as this should be
included in the e-mail:
“This message may contain confidential and/or proprietary information and is intended for the person/entity to whom it was originally addressed. Any use by others is
strictly prohibited.”
SECTION 5: IDENTIFICATION OF
RED FLAGS
A: Covered accounts
A covered account includes any
account that involves or is designed
to permit multiple payments or
transactions. Every new and existing customer account that meets the
following criteria is covered by this
program:
1. Business, personal and household accounts for which there are a
reasonably foreseeable risk of identity theft; or

The City Record
2. Business, a personal and household account for which there is a
reasonably foreseeable risk to the
safety or soundness of the City of
Cleveland from identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance,
reputation,
or
litigation
risks.
B: Red flags
1: The following red flags are
potential indicators of fraud. Any
time a red flag, or a situation closely resembling a red flag, is apparent, it should be investigated for
verification. The appropriate response
depends on the particular red flag
and the level of perceived risk.
a. Alerts, notifications or warnings from a consumer reporting
agency;
b. A fraud or active duty alert
included with a consumer report;
c. A notice of credit freeze from a
consumer
reporting
agency
in
response to a request for a consumer
report; or
d. A notice of address discrepancy
from a consumer reporting agency
as defined in § 334.82(b) of the Fairness and Accuracy in Credit Transactions Act.
2: Red flags also include consumer reports that indicate a pattern of activity inconsistent with the
history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or customer, such
as:
a. A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
b. An unusual number of recently
established credit relationships;
c. A material change in the use of
credit, especially with respect to
recently established credit relationships;
d. An account that was closed for
cause or identified for abuse of
account privileges by a financial
institution or creditor;
e. The presentation of suspicious
documents;
f. The presentation of suspicious
personal identifying information;
g. The unusual use of, or other
suspicious activity related to, a covered account.
C: Suspicious documents
1: Documents provided for identification that appears to have been
altered or forged.
2: The photograph or physical
description on the identification is
not consistent with the appearance
of the applicant or customer presenting the identification.
3: Other information on the identification is not consistent with
information provided by the person
opening a new covered account or
with the customer presenting the
identification.
4: Other information on the identification is not consistent with
readily accessible information that
is on file with the municipality,
such as a signature card or a recent
check.
5: An application appears to have
been altered or forged, or gives the

695

5
appearance of having been destroyed and reassembled.
D: Suspicious personal identifying
information
1: Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent when
compared against external information sources used by the City. For
example:
a. The address does not match
any address in the consumer report;
b. The Social Security number
(SSN) has not been issued or is listed on the Social Security Administration’s Death Master File; or
c. Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not
consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer. For example, there is a
lack of correlation between the
social security number range and
date of birth.
2: Personal identifying information provided is associated with
known fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party
sources used by the City of Cleveland. For example, the address on
an application is the same as the
address provided on a fraudulent
application.
3: Personal identifying information provided is of a type commonly associated with fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or thirdparty sources used by the municipality. For example:
• The address on an application
is fictitious, a mail drop, or a prison;
or
• The phone number is invalid or
is associated with a pager or
answering service.
4: The SSN provided is the same
as that submitted by other persons
opening an account or other customers.
5: The address or telephone number provided is the same as or similar to the address or telephone number submitted by a number of other
customers or other persons opening
accounts.
6: The customer or the person
opening the covered account fails to
provide all required personal identifying information on an application
or in response to notification that
the application is incomplete.
7: Personal identifying information provided is not consistent with
personal
identifying
information
that is on file with the municipality.
8: When answering security questions (mother’s maiden name, pet’s
name, etc.), the customer, or the person opening the covered account
cannot provide authenticating information beyond that which generally
would be available from a wallet or
consumer report.
E: Unusual use of, or suspicious
activity related to, the covered account

The City Record

6
1: Shortly following the notice of
a change of address for a covered
account,
the
City
of
Cleveland
receives a request for new, additional, or replacement goods or services, or for the addition of authorized users on the account.
2: A new revolving credit account
is used in a manner commonly associated with known patterns of fraud
patterns. For example, the customer
fails to make the first payment or
makes an initial payment but no
subsequent payments

B: If a transaction is determined
to be fraudulent, appropriate actions
must be taken immediately. Actions
may include:
1. Canceling the transaction;
2. Notifying and cooperating with
appropriate law enforcement;
3. Determining the extent of liability of the City of Cleveland; and
4. Notifying the actual customer
that fraud has been attempted.
SECTION 7: PERIODIC UPDATES
TO PROGRAM

3: A covered account is used in a
manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on
the account. There is, for example:

A: The Director of Finance shall,
at periodic intervals, re-evaluate the
program to determine whether all
aspects of the program are up to
date and applicable in the current
business environment.

a. Nonpayment when there is no
history of late or missed payments;
b. A material change in purchasing or usage patterns

B: Periodic reviews will include
an assessment of which accounts
are covered by the program.

4: A covered account that has
been
inactive
for
a
reasonably
lengthy period of time is used (taking into consideration the type of
account, the expected pattern of
usage, and other relevant factors).
5: Mail sent to the customer is
returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although transactions continue to be
conducted in connection with the
customer’s covered account.
6: The City of Cleveland is notified that the customer is not receiving paper account statements.
7: The City of Cleveland is notified of unauthorized charges or
transactions in connection with a
customer’s covered account.
8: The City of Cleveland receives
notice from customers, victims of
identity
theft,
law
enforcement
authorities, or other persons regarding possible identity theft in connection with covered accounts held
by the municipality.
9: The City of Cleveland is notified by a customer, a victim of identity theft, a law enforcement authority, or any other person that it has
opened a fraudulent account for a
person engaged in identity theft.
SECTION 6:
RED FLAGS

RESPONDING

TO

A: Once potentially fraudulent activity is detected, an employee must
act quickly, with a rapid appropriate response that can protect customers and the City of Cleveland
from damages and loss.
1: Once
potentially
fraudulent
activity is detected, gather all related
documentation,
and
write
a
description of the situation. Present
this information to the designated
authority for determination. Notify
the Cleveland Police Department if
necessary.
2: The designated authority will
complete additional authentication
to determine whether the attempted
transaction
was
fraudulent
or
authentic.

C: As part of the review, red flags
may be revised, replaced, or eliminated. Defining new red flags may
also be appropriate.
D: Actions to take in the event
that fraudulent activity is discovered may also require revision to
reduce damage to the City of Cleveland and its customers.
SECTION 8: PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION
A: Management
1. Operational responsibility of the
program is delegated to the Department of Finance.
B: Staff training
1. Staff training shall be conducted for all employees, officials and
contractors for whom it is reasonably foreseeable that they may come
into contact with accounts or sensitive information that may constitute
a risk to the municipality or its customers.
2. Employees must receive annual
training in all elements of this policy by their respective Departments.
3. To ensure maximum effectiveness, employees may continue to
receive
additional
training
as
changes to the program are made.
C: Oversight of service provider
arrangements
1. The activities of all service
providers shall be conducted in
accordance with reasonable policies
and procedures designed to detect,
prevent, and mitigate the risk of
identity theft.
2. A service provider that maintains its own identity theft prevention program, consistent with the
guidance of the red flag rules and
validated by appropriate due diligence, may be considered to be
meeting these requirements.
3. Any specific requirements should
be addressed in the appropriate contract and the Director responsible
for the contract shall exercise appropriate and effective oversight of
the service provider arrangements.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

696

April 22, 2009
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 502-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing payment of membership dues of
the City of Cleveland in the Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating
Agency.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to cause payment of 2009 membership dues of
the City of Cleveland to be made to
the Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency.
Section 2. That the payment for
the dues and subscriptions shall be
paid from Fund No. 01-999800-623200,
Request No. 146297.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 503-09.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to refurbish the
SCADA and PCCS Systems, including replacement parts, equipment,
computer software, software upgrades,
support software, software implementation, system changes, configurations, programming, tuning, upgrades, services and support and
maintenance necessary for the operation of the systems, for the Divisions of Water, Water Pollution Control, and Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a period of two years
of the necessary items of labor and
materials necessary to refurbish the
SCADA and PCCS Systems, including
replacement parts, equipment, computer software, software upgrades,
support software, software imple-

April 22, 2009
mentation, system changes, configurations, programming, tuning, upgrade, services and support and
maintenance necessary for the operation of the systems, in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding term, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis for the
Divisions of Water, Water Pollution
Control,
and
Cleveland
Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 189902)
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to sign
any third party software license
agreements necessary to effect the
purposes of this ordinance.
Section 4. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made
through
cooperative
agreements with other governmental agencies. The Director of Public Utilities
may sign all documents that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 504-09.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of chemicals
needed to control the growth of tree
roots, including labor and materials
needed for application, for the Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to

The City Record
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a one year period of
the necessary items of chemicals
needed to control the growth of tree
roots, including labor and materials
needed
for
application,
in
the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public
Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 180016)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Public
Utilities may sign all documents
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 505-09.
By Council Members Mitchell, Johnson, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into a
property adoption agreement with
Little Italy Redevelopment Corporation to develop and maintain a community garden at Tony Brush Park;
to accept the gift of a Christopher
Columbus statue from Little Italy
Redevelopment Corporation; and to
accept the gift of other public art
components to be installed at the
park.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

697

7
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 and
Section 133.24 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties is authorized to enter
into a property adoption agreement
with Little Italy Redevelopment Corporation to develop and maintain a
community garden at Tony Brush
Park, including maintaining any installed public art components.
Section 2. That this property adoption shall not be construed as a conveyance of any right, title, or interest in public property, but is the
grant of a privilege revocable at the
will of Council.
Section 3. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to accept the gift of any
improvements to the adopted property developed and maintained by
Little Italy Redevelopment Corporation, including accepting the gift of
a statute of Christopher Columbus
from Little Italy Redevelopment
Corporation, and accepting the gift
of other public art components,
which will be relocated to the adopted property and maintained under
the terms and conditions of the property adoption agreement authorized
in this ordinance.
Section 4. That the property adoption agreement authorized shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Properties and Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 506-09.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Pierce Scott, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with
American Sugar Refining, Inc. to
provide economic development assistance to partially finance the expansion of their present facility, construction of a new warehouse facility, and to develop vacant property,
located at East 65th and Carnegie,
and other associated costs necessary
to redevelop the property.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into one or more various types of loan agreements and
forgivable loans under the Vacant
Property Initiative with American
Sugar Refining, Inc. to provide economic development assistance to

8
partially finance the expansion of
their present facility, construction of
a new warehouse facility, and development of vacant property, located
at East 65th and Carnegie, and other
associated costs necessary to redevelop the property.
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan shall be according to the terms
set forth in the Summary contained
in File No. 506-09-A, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
as presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public
hearing on this legislation, and are
approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the costs of the
loan or forgivable loan agreements
shall not exceed $450,000, and shall
be paid from Fund No. 10 SF 501.
That the cost of the loan or any nonforgiveable portion may also be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 501, Request
No. 123990.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept the collateral as set
forth in the file referenced above in
order to secure repayment of the
loan. Any loan agreement, security
instrument, or other document shall
be prepared and approved by the
Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies in Fund No. 10 SF 502.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and the fees are appropriated to cover costs incurred in
the preparation of the loan application, closing and servicing of the
loan. The fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 17 SF
305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 7. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 8. The contract authorized in this legislation will require the recipient of financial
assistance to work with The Workforce Investment Board for Workforce Area No. 3 to identify and
solicit qualified candidates for job
opportunities related to the City’s
contracts, and place special emphasis on the hard to employ, including but not limited to the disabled
and persons who have been convicted of or have pled guilty to a
criminal offense, unless the criminal conviction or related circumstances relate to the duties for the
particular job sought.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 514-09.
By Council Members Johnson, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating Ralph J. Perk Plaza; authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
one or more contracts for the making of the improvement; and authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to apply for
and accept one or more grants and
gifts from public and private entities to implement improvements to
the Ralph J. Perk Plaza.
Whereas, the unique design, time,
budgetary, or other material elements of this project can benefit
from the special care, coordination,
and expeditiousness possible by performance of both the professional
design services and the construction
under a design-build approach contract with a single entity; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
rehabilitating the Ralph J. Perk
Plaza, including the design, procurement,
and
construction
(the
“Improvement”), for the Division of
Research, Planning and Development, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, by one or more
design-build or engineer-procure-construct contracts duly let to the person, firm, or corporation or combination of them submitting the best
proposal, taking into consideration
the engineering and design, the construction method(s), the proposed
design and construction costs, the
total life-cycle costs, the qualifications of the proposed design professional(s) and construction firm(s),
and the other objectives of the
Improvement.
The selection of the person(s),
firm(s), or corporations(s) to design
and construct the Improvement shall
be made by the Board of Control on
the nomination of the Director of
Parks, Recreation, and Properties
from a list of qualified and available person(s), firm(s), or corporations(s), as may be determined by
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties after making a full
and complete canvass for the purpose of compiling the list. The Board
of Control shall fix the total compensation to be paid for all design
and construction and procurement
necessary for the Improvement. The
contract or contracts shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is authorized to execute all documents and
pay all fees necessary to acquire
any real estate interests needed for
the Improvement.

698

April 22, 2009
Section 3. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to apply for and accept
one or more grants and gifts from
public and private entities to implement the Improvement. The Director
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in this
ordinance.
Section 4. That the cost of the
Improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 377, 20
SF 382, 20 SF 501, 20 SF 504, 20 SF
508, 20 SF 516, from the proceeds of
the sale of general obligation bonds
authorized by Ordinance No. 243-09,
if the City sells such bonds, from
any gifts and grants accepted under
this ordinance, and from any other
funds appropriated for this purpose,
Request No. 132970.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Property and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 515-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more contracts with Alltel Communications, Inc. to provide
telecommunications connections between the Department of Public
Safety mobile data computers and
the CRIS devices for LEADS, for a
period of one year with two one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Alltel
Communications, Inc. to provide telecommunications connections between
the Department of Public Safety
mobile data computers and the CRIS
devices for LEADS, in the estimated sum of $479,904.00, for the Department of Finance, for a period of one
year with two one-year options to
renew, exercisable by the Director
of Finance. The contract or contracts shall be paid from Fund No.
01-151102-631000, Request No. 181580.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

April 22, 2009
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 507-09.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Cimperman, Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic
Development to enter into contract
with Alcoa to provide economic
development assistance to partially
finance the refurbishment of equipment located at their facility located at 1600 Harvard Avenue and
other associated costs necessary to
redevelop the property; and to
enter into a development agreement with the Village of Cuyahoga
Heights and the City of Independence.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into contract with
Alcoa to provide economic development assistance to partially finance
the
refurbishment
of
equipment
located at their facility located at
1600 Harvard Avenue and other
associated costs necessary to redevelop the property.
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan shall be according to the terms
set forth in the Summary contained
in File No. 507-09-A made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
as presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public
hearing on this legislation, and are
approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the costs of the
loan shall not exceed Eight Hundred Thousand Dollars ($800,000),
and shall be paid from Fund No. 17
SF 008, which funds are appropriated for this purpose, Request No.
123988.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept the collateral as set
forth in the file referenced above in
order to secure repayment of the
loan. Any loan agreement, security
instrument, or other document shall
be prepared and approved by the
Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies in Fund No. 17 SF 006.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and the fees are appropriated to cover costs incurred in
the preparation of the loan application, closing and servicing of the
loan. The fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 17 SF
305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 7. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.

The City Record
Section
8.
That
the
contract
authorized in this legislation will
require the recipient of financial
assistance to work with The Workforce Investment Board for Workforce Area No. 3 to identify and
solicit qualified candidates for job
opportunities related to the City’s
contracts, and place special emphasis on the hard to employ, including but not limited to the disabled
and persons who have been convicted of or have pled guilty to a
criminal offense, unless the criminal conviction or related circumstances relate to the duties for the
particular job sought.
Section 9. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a development
agreement with the Village of Cuyahoga Heights and the City of Independence.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 1.
Those voting yea: Council Members Sweeney, Brady, Brancatelli,
Cimperman, Cleveland, Coats, Conwell,
Johnson,
Keane,
Mitchell,
Pierce Scott, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Santiago, Westbrook, Wilkes.
Those voting nay: Council Member
Kelley.
Absent: Council Members Cummins and Zone.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council, Council Member TJ Dow,
recused himself from the vote regarding Ordinance No. 507-09. Council Member Dow further requested
that the City Record reflect his
recusal.
Ord. No. 516-09.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Santiago.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Annual City to City
Run, on April 19, 2009, sponsored by
Hermes Sports & Events Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Annual City to
City Run, sponsored by Hermes
Sports & Events, Inc. on April 19,
2009, start: Huron and West 2nd,
Huron to Superior, Superior across
Veterans Memorial Bridge to Detroit, Detroit to West 28th, West
28th to Fulton, Fulton to Bridge,
Bridge to West 32nd, West 32nd to
Lorain cross Lorain turn around,
return same route to finish, provided that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section

699

9
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 517-09.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Annual Diversity Center of Northeast Ohio Walk/Run, on
May 2, 2009.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Annual Diversity
Center of Northeast Ohio Walk/Run,
on May 2, 2009, start: Erieside and
Rock Hall, Erieside to East 9th,
East 9th to North Marginal, North
Marginal to Burke Airport Loop
Drive, Loop Drive to North Marginal, North Marginal to East 9th, East
9th to Lakeside, Lakeside to West
3rd, West 3rd to St. Clair, St. Clair
to West 9th, West 9th to West Lakeside, West Lakeside to West 3rd,
West 3rd to Erieside to finish, provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all liability resulting from the issuance of the same, to the extent and
in form satisfactory to the Director
of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

10
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 518-09.
By Council Members Zone and Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Hermes Cleveland 10
Miler, on April 25, 2009, sponsored by
Hermes Sports & Events Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Hermes Cleveland
10
Miler,
sponsored
by
Hermes
Sports & Events, Inc. on April 25,
2009, Start: Edgewater Park, exit
park west up bike path to West
Blvd., south on West Blvd. to Lake,
Lake west to West 117th then into
the City of Lakewood, returning
from Lakewood east on Lake to
Detroit, east on Detroit to West 76th,
north on West 76th to Father Caruso Drive, east on Father Caruso to
tunnel to Edgewater park and finish, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 508-09.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Westbrook, Conwell, Coats, Kelley,
Cleveland, Keane, Brady, Sweeney,
Brancatelli, Dow, Johnson, Mitchell,
Pierce Scott, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Santiago and Wilkes.
An emergency resolution supporting “The RESCUE”, a rally to be
held on April 25, 2009 at Willard

The City Record
Park and in cities across the country to bring attention to the plight
of the children abducted and forced
to fight as soldiers in Central East
Africa.
Whereas, for the past 23 years, the
Lord’s Resistance Army (“LRA”) and
the government of Uganda have
been waging war that has left nearly two million innocent civilians
caught in the middle; and
Whereas, during these past 23
years, the Lord’s Resistance Army
has abducted children and forced
them to be soldiers in the LRA and
fight with them in Central East
Africa; and
Whereas, governments and international bodies must develop a
strategy and support existing efforts to rescue child soldiers from
the LRA; and
Whereas, the activist group Invisible Children is hosting “The RESCUE” on April 25, 2009 in Cleveland
and in 100 other cities across the
country in order to bring attention
to the plight of children abducted
and forced to fight in Central East
Africa; and
Whereas, during “The RESCUE”,
supporters will draw attention to
the plight of the abducted by
“abducting” themselves and remaining “abducted” until persons of influence or cultural significance arrive and rescue them by making a
public statement on behalf of the
child soldiers; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports “The RESCUE”, a rally to be
held on April 25, 2009 at Willard
Park and in cities across the country to bring attention to the plight
of the children abducted and forced
to fight as soldiers in Central East
Africa
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to Joshua
Wolny of Invisible Children.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 509-09.
By Council Members Santiago and
Conwell.
An emergency resolution urging a
moratorium on home foreclosures
and calling upon the United States
Congress to enact a homeowners
and bank protection plan.
Whereas, a financial crisis involving home mortgages, debt instruments and the United States bank-

700

April 22, 2009
ing system threatens economic stability; and
Whereas,
the
financial
crisis
threatens the integrity of Federal
and State chartered banks such that
consumer deposits and life savings
are jeopardized; and
Whereas, financial investments and
home ownership are the fabric of
economic stability and the stability
of financial institutions; and
Whereas, millions of Americans,
and thousands of Cleveland residents have lost their homes to foreclosure in the past year; and
Whereas, historically the federal
government has intervened to protect financial institutions and home
ownership to provide guarantees of
social and economic stability; and
Whereas, the quality of life in any
community can be directly related to
the responsiveness of government
and its ability to meet the needs and
expectations of its citizens; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby urges a moratorium on home
foreclosures and calls upon the
United States Congress to enact a
homeowners and bank protection
plan specifically to:
(A) Create a federal agency to
place Federal and State chartered
banks under protection, freezing all
existing home mortgages for a
period of however many months or
years are required, thereby allowing
mortgages values to adjust to fair
prices, and restructuring existing
mortgages at appropriate interest
rates and writing off speculative
debt obligations of mortgage-backed
securities, financial derivatives and
other forms of financial schemes
that have brought the banking system to the point of bankruptcy;
(B) Declare a moratorium on all
home foreclosures for the duration
of the transitional period, allowing
families to retain their homes;
(C) Require affordable monthly
home
mortgages
payments,
the
equivalent of “rental payments,” to
be made to designated banks for use
as collateral in normal lending practices for recapitalization of the
banking industry and to factor such
affordable payments into new mortgages thereby deflating the housing
bubble,
establishing
appropriate
property valuation and reducing
fixed mortgage interest rates. In the
interim period, no homeowner shall
be evicted be evicted from their
property and the Federal and State
chartered banks shall be protected,
so they can resume their traditional
banking functions, including serving local communities and facilitating credit for investment in productive industries, agriculture, infrastructure etc.;
(D) Authorize state governors to
assume the administrative responsibilities for implementing the programs,
including
provisions
for
“rental” assessments payable to specific banks, and with provisions for
necessary federal guarantees and
credits to assure successful transition.

April 22, 2009
Section 2. That the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit a copy of
this
resolution
to
Ohio
Senator
George
Voinovich,
Ohio
Senator
Sherrod Brown and U.S. House Representative Marcia Fudge, and also
be delivered to President Barack
Obama and Ohio Governor Ted
Strickland.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 510-09.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the Liquor Agency Contract
located at 3230 East 93rd Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a
Liquor Agency Contract at Semaan
Marketing, Inc., 3230 East 93rd
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number 7974550; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the Liquor

The City Record
Agency Contract located at Semaan
Marketing, Inc., 3230 East 93rd
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number 7974550; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 511-09.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit to
12611-15 Shaw Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C2, C2X
and D6 Liquor Permit from JDPA
Corporation, DBA Mr. C’s Food Mart,
12611-15 Shaw Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44108,
Permanent
Number
4177126 to Koubba, Inc., 12611-15
Shaw Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108,
Permanent Number 48140530005; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

701

11
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2, C2X and
D6 Liquor Permit from JDPA Corporation, DBA Mr. C’s Food Mart,
12611-15 Shaw Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44108,
Permanent
Number
4177126 to Koubba, Inc., 12611-15
Shaw Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108,
Permanent Number 48140530005; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 512-09.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of stock of a C1,
C2 and D6 Liquor Permit to 3230
East 93rd Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a transfer of stock of a C1, C2 and D6
Liquor Permit at Semaan Marketing,
Inc., 3230 East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number
7974550; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or

12
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a transfer
of stock of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor
Permit at Semaan Marketing, Inc.,
3230 East 93rd Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44104,
Permanent
Number
7974550, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 513-09.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 770
East 185th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit from 4424 LLC,
DBA Bucco’s, 770 East 185th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent
Number 2830808 to Winners on 185
LLC, DBA Winners Sports Club &
Grill, 770 East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent Number
9710420; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and

The City Record
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from 4424 LLC, DBA
Bucco’s, 770 East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent Number
2830808 to Winners on 185 LLC, DBA
Winners Sports Club & Grill, 770
East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44110, Permanent Number 9710420;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 519-09.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the Liquor Agency Contract
located at 12611-15 Shaw Avenue.

702

April 22, 2009
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a
Liquor Agency Contract at Koubba,
Inc., 12611-15 Shaw Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent Number
48140530005; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the Liquor
Agency Contract located at Koubba,
Inc., 12611-15 Shaw Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent Number
48140530005; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

April 22, 2009
Res. No. 520-09.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of C1 Liquor Permit at
3980 St. Clair Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 362-09, objecting to
said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit to East 40th Marathon, Inc., 3980 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
No. 2385277, by Resolution No. 362-09
adopted by the Council on March 23,
2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
Liquor Permit to East 40th Marathon, Inc., 3980 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
No. 2385277, be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
362-09, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 521-09.
By Council Member Sweeney, Mayor
Jackson and Council Members Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Coats, Conwell, Dow, Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Pierce Scott, Polensek,
Pruitt, Reed, Santiago, Westbrook
and Wilkes.
An emergency resolution expressing Council’s belief that the will of
the City’s voters should be respected when the voters overwhelmingly
approved amending the Charter to
expand the testing period from 90
days to one year and “grandfathering in” temporarily appointed employees who met certain requirements, that the voter-approved Charter amendments should be implemented, and that the City should
suffer no penalty for not complying
with Charter provisions that the voters repealed.
Whereas, for fifteen years the
City has been involved in a lawsuit
brought by the Civil Service Employees Association (CSEA) concerning several City Civil Service Charter provisions; and
Whereas, included with other civil
service requirements, the Charter
requires that employees who were

The City Record
temporarily appointed to their positions must be tested within 90 days
of hire or promotion; and
Whereas, historically this City has
been unable to comply with this
requirement causing the number of
temporary appointments to sometimes be in the thousands; and
Whereas, in recent years, the
Jackson administration has worked
to comply with the Charter by testing the temporary appointments to
bring the number down from 2400 to
about 700;
Whereas, many of the temporary
appointments are competent and
highly skilled employees who have
worked for the City of Cleveland for
many years;
Whereas, they are temporary appointments through no fault of their
own and as temporary appointments
they risk losing their jobs;
Whereas,
the
Charter
Review
Commission appointed by this Council recommended changing the requirement that temporary appointments be tested in 90 days to one
year;
Whereas, to address the remaining temporary appointments, the
Charter Review Commission recommended granting regular status to
temporary appointments who met
certain conditions; and
Whereas, recognizing that the 90
day requirement was onerous, this
Council agreed with the Charter
Review Commission’s recommendation that the Charter’s civil service
provisions be changed and approved
placing amendments to the Charter
on the ballot for the election in
November of 2008; and
Whereas, at that election, the
City’s voters overwhelmingly approved amending the Charter to
expand the testing period from 90
days to one year and “grandfathering in” temporarily appointed employees who have satisfactorily performed in their positions and met
certain other requirements; and
Whereas, in spite of the City’s voters
expressing
their
desire
to
expand the testing period and grandfather temporary appointments, the
Court in the 15-year-old lawsuit
recently ruled against the City levying a substantial fine, imposing a
hiring freeze, and appointing a “special master” to control the Civil Service Commission in pursuit of having the City test temporary appointments within a 90 day period; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
or safety in that the Court’s ruling
threatens to undermine the City’s
operations and ignores the will of
the voters; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council believes that the will of the City’s voters should be respected, that the
voter-approved Charter amendments
should be implemented, and that the
City should suffer no penalty for not
complying with Charter provisions
that the voters repealed.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

703

13
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 1.
Those voting yea: Council Members Sweeney, Brady, Brancatelli,
Cimperman, Cleveland, Coats, Conwell, Dow, Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell,
Pierce Scott, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Santiago, Westbrook, Wilkes.
Those voting nay: Council Member
Keane.
Absent: Council Members Cummins and Zone.
Res. No. 522-09.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 3101
Scranton Road, and repealing Resolution No. 1044-08, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to
Eamon, Inc., DBA Gas USA, 3101
Scranton Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44109
by Resolution No. 1044-08 adopted by
the Council on July 2, 2008; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Eamon,
Inc., DBA Gas USA, 3101 Scranton
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent Number 23943930005 be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1044-08, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 523-09.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
15509 Glencoe Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for a New C1 Liquor
Permit at Solomon H. Wulu, DBA
Solomon Enterprise, 15509 Glencoe
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent Number 9796599; and

14
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Solomon H. Wulu,
DBA Solomon Enterprise, 15509 Glencoe Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110,
Permanent
Number
9796599,
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 157-09.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of diving and
underwater inspections, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 272-09.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to assess the Division of
Water’s internet and intranet sites,
design the accepted recommendations, acquire new software and
software updates to existing software, convert and migrate data,
develop content, project management and other related services; and
various written standard purchase
and requirement contracts needed in
connection with the improvement,
for a period of two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 311-09.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with Youth Opportunities Unlimited
for the administration, implementation, and management of the 2009
Cleveland Youth Summer Employment Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 394-09.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to apply for and accept funds from
the Ohio Public Works Commission
to partially reimburse Cleveland for
costs incurred by the Department of
Public Utilities as a result of the
water main break on Public Square
that occurred on March 6, 2008.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.

704

April 22, 2009
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 395-09.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
types of fencing, gate operators,
gates, barriers, walls, and guardrails, including associated appurtenances, and labor and materials
necessary to repair or maintain
existing equipment and appurtenances, including installation if necessary at various facilities, for the
various divisions of the Department
of Public Utilities, for a period not
to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 407-09.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more agreements with Cleveland Housing Network to provide various customer
services to low income home owners
or rental property owners, for the
Divisions of Water, Water Pollution
Control,
and
Cleveland
Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 463-09.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Members Cimperman and Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to apply
for and accept American Recovery
and Reinvestment Act funds from
Federal, State, or other public entities for various City improvements,
projects, and programs eligible for
this funding; authorizing the Director to apply for and accept other
grants, loans, and gifts from Federal, State, or other public and private
entities to implement ARRA-funded
projects; authorizing various contracts, contract amendments, and
grant agreement amendments, and
other agreements necessary; authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire for
right-of-way
purposes
such
real
property and easements that are
necessary to implement the ARRAfunded projects; to pay or reimburse
other entities for related costs,
including the City share of improvements; to pay for permits, licenses,
fees, charges, and other authorizations required for any ARRA project; and to enter into contracts that
are necessary.

The City Record

April 22, 2009
Approved by Directors of City Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law;
Relieved of Committee on City Planning; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, strike line 6, after
“funding;” insert “and”; and strike
lines 10 through the end of the title,
and insert “ARRA-funded projects.”.
2. In Section 1, line 1, after “Director of Finance” insert “or the Director responsible for the improvements, projects, and programs funded under this ordinance (“Appropriate Director”); and in line 4, between “the” and “Director” insert
“Appropriate”.
3. In Section 2, line 1, strike
“Director of Finance” and insert
“Appropriate Director”; and in line 4,
between “the” and “Director” insert
“Appropriate”.
4. In Section 3, line 1, strike
“Director of Finance” and insert
“Appropriate Director”; and in line 4,
between “the” and “Director” insert
“Appropriate”.
5. In Section 4, line 1, strike
“Director of Finance” and insert
“Appropriate Director”; and in lines
5 and 8, between “the” and “Director” insert “Appropriate” in both
places.
6. In Section 5, line 1, strike
“Director of Finance” and insert
“Appropriate Director”.
7. Strike Sections 7 to 33 in their
entirety in order to remove any
authority in the ordinance to authorize contracts or other agreements.
8. Renumber Section 34 to new
“Section 7”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
MOTION
By Council Member Johnson, seconded by Council Member Cimperman and unanimously carried that
the absence of Council Members
Brian Cummins and Matthew Zone
be and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:20 p.m. to meet on Monday, April
27, 2009 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chambers.

BOARD OF CONTROL
April 15, 2009
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, April 15, 2009,
at 10:30 a.m. with Director Triozzi
presiding.
Present: Director Triozzi, Acting
Director Withers, Directors Wasik,
Carroll, Flask, Acting Director Thompson, Directors Rush, Hutchinson,
Nichols, Fumich, Acting Interim Director Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and R. Smith.
Others: Jim Hardy, Commissioner,
Purchases and Supplies.
Natoya Walker, Acting Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 127-09.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1169-08, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on September 29,
2008, Hylant Group is selected from
a list of firms determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Utilities as the
firm to be employed by contract to
supplement the regularly employed
staff of Public Utilities Department
of the City of Cleveland to perform
the professional services necessary
for fire and extended coverage property insurance for facilities and
equipment within the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, for a period
of one year with two one-year options to renew, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into contract with
Hylant Group, based on its proposal
dated March 26, 2009, which contract
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, shall provide for the furnishing of professional services necessary to provide fire and extended
coverage property insurance as described in the proposal for a fee of
$370,000.00 (not including taxes, fees
or terrorism), utilizing loss deductibles of $250,000.00 per occurrence
for all losses including turbines, and
shall contain such additional provisions as the Director of Law deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultant is approved:
SUB-CONSULTANT

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measure will be on
its final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

15

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Pinkney-Perry Insurance
Agency (MBE/CSB)

$3,700.00
1.00%

Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Wasik,
Carroll, Flask, Acting Director Thompson, Directors Rush, Hutchinson,
Nichols, Fumich, Acting Interim Director Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and R. Smith.

705

Resolution No. 128-09.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
735-08, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on June 9, 2008, Resource International, Inc. is selected
from a list of firms determined after
a full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Utilities as the
firm to be employed by contract to
provide professional consulting services necessary to provide environmental, health, safety, sustainability
and engineering services including
but not limited to: employee health
and safety services, environmental
permit assistance, forensic investigations of water main failures, structural analysis, geotechnical analysis,
industrial analysis, water main and
sewer video inspections, soil analysis, energy audits, air analysis, lead
paint and mold sampling and analysis, residual analysis, and other related services, for a period not exceeding two years, for the Divisions of
Water, Water Pollution Control and
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a contract with
Resource International, Inc. based
upon its proposal dated December 4,
2008, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall
provide for furnishing of professional services described in the proposal, for an estimated amount of
$450,000.00, and shall contain such
additional provisions as the Director
of Law deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Resource International, Inc. for the above-mentioned
professional services is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK

Safex Inc.

TBD

Kimball Associates, P.A.

TBD

Precision Analytical, Inc.
(CSB/M)

TBD

ALS USA Corp., d.b.a.
ALS DataChem
(Cincinnati)

TBD

Electro-Analytical Inc.
d.b.a. EA Group

TBD

Ziska Architecture, LLC
(CSB)

TBD

C&K Industrial Services,
Inc.

TBD

Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Wasik,
Carroll, Flask, Acting Director Thompson, Directors Rush, Hutchinson,
Nichols, Fumich, Acting Interim Director Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and R. Smith.
Resolution No. 129-09.
By Director Smith.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of B. P. Britches, Inc. d/b/a Christo-

16
pher’s, for the necessary items of
required employee uniforms, Items 1
(E), (F), (O), (P), (Q), (R), (T),
(U), (V), (W), (X) through (GG),
(JJ), (KK), (NN) through (QQ) and
2, for various divisions of the
Department of Port Control, for a
period of two years beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on November 26, 2008, under
the authority of Section 181.101 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to $47,180.00, is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Port Control is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the labor and
materials necessary, which shall
provide for the immediate purchase
as the initial amount of the contract
of the following:
Requisition No. 181092
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $47,180.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such labor
and materials, whether more or less
than the estimated quantity, as may
be ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Wasik,
Carroll, Flask, Acting Director Thompson, Directors Rush, Hutchinson,
Nichols, Fumich, Acting Interim Director Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and R. Smith.
Resolution No. 130-09.
By Director Smith.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Schwarz Uniform Corporation, for
the necessary items of required employee uniforms, Items 1 (A), (B),
(C), (D), (G) through (N), (S),
(HH), (II), (LL), and (MM), for various divisions of the Department of
Port Control, for a period of two
years beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
November 26, 2008, under the authority of Section 181.101 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $29,550.00,
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Port Control is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
labor
and
materials
necessary,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of the contract of the following:
Requisition No. 181093
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $29,550.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such labor
and materials, whether more or less
than the estimated quantity, as may
be ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Wasik,
Carroll, Flask, Acting Director Thomp-

The City Record
son, Directors Rush, Hutchinson,
Nichols, Fumich, Acting Interim Director Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and R. Smith.
Resolution No. 131-09.
By Director Wasik and Interim
Director Withers.
Whereas, under Section 181.101 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, and Board of Control Resolution No. 7-09, adopted January 7, 2009, the Director of Public
Service entered into Contract No.
68936 with Unique Paving Materials
Corporation for the City’s requirements for cold mix material in the
approximate amount of $196,000, for
a period of one year, for the Department of Public Service, Division of
Streets; and
Whereas, the estimated quantity
of cold mix material specified in the
Invitation to Bid upon which Contract No. 68936 was based included
both the requirements of the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, as well as the Division of
Streets, Department of Public Service, for the material; and
Whereas, Resolution No. 7-09 inadvertently omitted both the Department of Public Utilities, Division of
Water, as a user of the cold mix
material and the Director of Public
Utilities as a director authorized signatory to a contract with Unique
Paving Materials Corporation for
the material; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 7-09, adopted by this
Board January 7, 2009, approving
the bid of Unique Paving Materials
Corporation as lowest and best for
an estimated quantity of cold mix
material in the approximate amount
of $196,000 is amended by adding the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, as a division for
which the City is purchasing cold
mix material and by adding the
Director of Public Utilities as a
director requested to enter into a
requirement contract with Unique
Paving Materials Corporation for
the material.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No. 709 not expressly amended above
shall remain unchanged and in full
force and effect.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Service and the
Director of Public Utilities are
authorized to execute all documents
and do all things necessary to effectuate the amendments to Resolution
No. 7-09 approved above.
Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Wasik,
Carroll, Flask, Acting Director Thompson, Directors Rush, Hutchinson,
Nichols, Fumich, Acting Interim Director Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and R. Smith.
Resolution No. 132-09.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Frank Blackmon for an
estimated quantity of various lubricants, Part B items 2 (a, b, c, d), 3

706

April 22, 2009
(a, b, c, d), 4 (a) and 5 (a), for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service,
for the period of one year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on January 30, 2009,
under the authority of Section 131.17
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to $48,177.45 (2% 30 Days),
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Service is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services, which shall
provide for the immediate purchase
as the initial amount of the contract
the following:
Requisition No. 191258
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $8,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Wasik,
Carroll, Flask, Acting Director Thompson, Directors Rush, Hutchinson,
Nichols, Fumich, Acting Interim Director Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and R. Smith.
Resolution No. 133-09.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that the
bid of Northeast Lubricants, Ltd. for
an estimated quantity of various
lubricants, Part B items 1 (a, b), 6
(a) and 7 (a, b, c), for the Division
of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Service, for the
period of one year beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on January 30, 2009, under
the authority of Section 131.17 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$30,750.00 (0% Net), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
requested to enter into a requirement
contract for the goods and/or services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of the contract the following:
Requisition No. 191259
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $5,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Wasik,
Carroll, Flask, Acting Director Thompson, Directors Rush, Hutchinson,
Nichols, Fumich, Acting Interim Director Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and R. Smith.

The City Record

April 22, 2009
Resolution No. 134-09.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Valley Ford Truck, Inc.
for an estimated quantity of various
Ford truck parts and labor, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service,
for the period of three years beginning with the date of execution of
a contract, with two options to
renew for additional one year terms,
received on January 9, 2009, under
the authority of Section 131.17 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$475,000.00 (2% 10 Day Net 30 Day),
is affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Public Service is requested to
enter into a requirement contract for
the goods and/or services, which
shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of the
contract the following:
Requisition No. 191201
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $50,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Wasik,
Carroll, Flask, Acting Director Thompson, Directors Rush, Hutchinson,
Nichols, Fumich, Acting Interim Director Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and R. Smith.
Resolution No. 135-09.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under Ordinance No. 1345-08,
passed by the Council of the City
Cleveland on November 10, 2008,
the firm of Standard Parking is
selected upon nomination of the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties from a list of consultants or firms of consultants determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties as the
firm to be employed by contract for
the purpose of managing the Gateway
East
and
Gateway
North
Garages, respectively located at 650
Huron
Road
and
2151
Ontario
Avenue, for a period commencing
June 1, 2009 and expiring no later
than May 31, 2012.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties is authorized to enter
into a written contract with Standard Parking, based on its January
30, 2009 proposal, for a term of two
years commencing June 1, 2009 with
one option, exercisable in writing by
the Director, to renew the contract
for additional one year term, and
expiring no later than May 31, 2012,
which contract shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, shall provide
for performing the professional management services substantially as
described in the proposal for an

17

aggregate fee of $86,950 per year for
the initial and any optional renewal term year, and shall include such
additional provisions as the Law
Director considers necessary to benefit and protect the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors are approved:
NAME

DOLLAR AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Nationwide Protective,
CSB, MBE

Industrial Transport,
CSB, MBE

J & L Work Apparel,
CSB, FBE

$364,498.00
20.385%

$105,407.00
5.895%

$

9,600.00
0.537%

Fast Signs, CSB, FBE

$

4,000.00
0.2247%

Quality Ribbons, CSB,
FBE

$

9,600.00
0.537%

Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Wasik,
Carroll, Flask, Acting Director Thompson, Directors Rush, Hutchinson,
Nichols, Fumich, Acting Interim Director Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and R. Smith.
Resolution No. 136-09.
By Director Hutchinson.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
195-09, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on March 16, 2009,
Associated Compensation Resources,
Inc., is selected from a list of firms
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Personnel and Human Resources as the
firm to be employed by contract to
supplement the regularly employed
staff of several departments of the
City of Cleveland to perform the
professional services necessary to
administer a comprehensive workers
compensation program, including but
not limited to, actuarial and auditing services, disability and account
management, preparing reports, scheduling and payment of medical exams,
claims settlement, handicap reimbursement, investigations, filing claims
and other duties for the Department
of Personnel and Human Resources.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Personnel and Human
Resources is authorized to enter into
contract with Associated Compensation Resources, Inc., based on its
proposal dated March 5, 2009, for a
term of one year with a one-year
option to renew, which contract
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, shall provide for the furnishing
of
professional
services
as
described in the proposal for an
aggregate fee of $254,250.00 and
shall contain such additional provisions as the Director of Law deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractor is approved:

707

NAME

DOLLAR AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

ICON Investigations
(CSB/M)

$10,000.00
03.704%

Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Wasik,
Carroll, Flask, Acting Director Thompson, Directors Rush, Hutchinson,
Nichols, Fumich, Acting Interim Director Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and R. Smith.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MAY 4, 2009
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 09-53: 4103 East 79th
Street (Ward 2)
Leea Knapik appeals under the
authority of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the Codified Ordinances, from a Violation Notice
issued by the Department of Building and Housing on February 27,
2009 regarding the property at 4103
East 79th Street and a violation of
Sections 327.02(B) of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 09-55: 1140 Terminal
Tower (Ward 14)
Scranton-Averell, Inc. and their
counsel Andrew M. Fowerbaugh,

18
appeal under Section 76-6 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland and
Section 329.02(d) of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances from a Notice of
Violation issued by the Harbor Master of the City of Cleveland Department of Port Control March 2, 2009,
for violation of ordinance 573.10 at
the property described in the violation as 1140 Terminal Tower, Cleveland Ohio, Permanent Parcel Number 004-29-010.
Calendar No. 09-56: 1800 Scranton
Avenue (Ward 14)
Scranton-Averell, Inc. and their
counsel Andrew M. Fowerbaugh,
appeal under Section 76-6 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland and
Section 329.02(d) of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances from a Notice of
Violation issued by the Harbor Master of the City of Cleveland Department of Port Control March 2, 2009,
for violation of ordinance 573.10 at
the property described in the violation as 1800 Scranton Avenue, Cleveland Ohio, Permanent Parcel Number 004-29-014.
Calendar No. 09-57: 1840 Carter Road
(Ward 14)
Scranton-Averell, Inc. and their
counsel Andrew M. Fowerbaugh,
appeal under Section 76-6 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland and
Section 329.02(d) of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances from a Notice of
Violation issued by the Harbor Master of the City of Cleveland Department of Port Control March 2, 2009,
for violation of ordinances 573.10 at
the property described in the violation as 1840 Carter Road, Cleveland,
Ohio, Permanent Parcel Number 00429-013.
Calendar No. 09-58: 1878 Carter Road
(Ward 14)
Scranton-Averell, Inc. and their
counsel Andrew M. Fowerbaugh,
appeal under Section 76-6 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland and
Section 329.02(d) of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances from a Notice of
Violation issued by the Harbor Master of the City of Cleveland Department of Port Control March 2, 2009,
for violation of ordinances 573.10 at
the property described in the violation as 1878 Carter Road, Cleveland,
Ohio, Permanent Parcel Number 00429-012.
Calendar No. 09-59: 1898 Carter Road
(Ward 14)
Scranton-Averell, Inc. and their
counsel
Andrew
M.
Fowerbaugh,
appeal under Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances from a Notice of Violation issued by the Harbor Master of
the City of Cleveland Department of
Port Control March 2, 2009, for violation of ordinances 573.10 at the property described in the violation as 1898
Carter Road, Cleveland, Ohio, Permanent Parcel Number 004-29-009.
Calendar No. 09-60: 1970 Carter Road
(Ward 14)
Carter Peninsula, Inc. and their
counsel Andrew M. Fowerbaugh,
appeal under Section 76-6 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland and
Section 329.02(d) of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances from a Notice of
Violation issued by the Harbor Mas-

The City Record

April 22, 2009

ter of the City of Cleveland Department of Port Control March 2, 2009,
for violation of ordinances 573.10 at
the property described in the violation as 1970 Carter Road, Cleveland,
Ohio, Permanent Parcel Number 00428-001.
Calendar No. 09-61: Riverbend Rear
(Ward 17)
Ontario Stone Corporation and
their counsel Nicholas C. York, appeal under Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances from a Notice of
Violation issued by the Harbor Master of the City of Cleveland Department of Port Control March 2, 2009,
for violation of ordinances 573.10 at
the property described in the violation as Riverbend Rear Cleveland,
Ohio, Permanent Parcel Number 00303-006.
Calendar No. 09-62: Riverbed Street
(Ward 13)
Westbank Development Corporation and their counsel Edward F.
Siegel, appeal under Section 76-6 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland
and Section 329.02(d) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances from a
Notice of Violation issued by the
Harbor Master of the City of Cleveland Department of Port Control
March 2, 2009, for violation of ordinances 573.02, 573.04, 573.10 at the
property described in the violation
as Riverbed Street Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent Parcel Number
003-15-054.
Calendar No. 09-63: University Road
and West 14th Street (Ward 13)
University
Cuyahoga
Inc.
and
their counsel Robert W. McIntyre,
appeal under Section 76-6 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland and
Section 329.02(d) of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances from a Notice of
Violation issued by the Harbor Master of the City of Cleveland Department of Port Control March 2, 2009,
for violation of ordinances 573.10 at
the property described in the violation as University Road & West 14th
Street Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Parcel Number 004-27-002.
Calendar No. 09-64: 6204 Detroit
Avenue (Ward 17)
Gordon Square Arts District LLC,
owner, appeals to install approximately 220 lineal feet of 8 foot high
black, vinyl coated chain link fence
on a 162.80' x 43.39' parcel in a
Local Retail Business District, contrary to the Fence Regulations a
height of more than 6 feet for fences
is prohibited in actual rear and interior side yards as stated in Section
358.05(a)(2) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 09-42: 2562 Martin
Luther King, Jr. Boulevard
Richard Nickerson, owner, and
Delilah Toles, tenant, appealed to
install a 6 foot high fence on a corner parcel in a Multi-Family District; subject to revised plan.
Calendar No. 09-47: 1914 East 75th
Street
Congregation of Jehovah’s Witnesses Cleveland Ohio Cedar, owner
appealed to install a 51 square foot
wall sign on the front of a building
in a Multi-Family District.
The following appeal was Denied:
None
The following appeals were Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 09-19: 2493 West 8th
Street
West 11th Street Properties LLC
appealed to erect a three-story single family dwelling in a B1 TwoFamily District.
Calendar No. 09-20: 2495 West 8th
Street
West 11th Street Properties LLC
appealed to erect a three-story single family dwelling in a B1 TwoFamily District.
Calendar No. 09-21: 2491 West 8th
Street
West 11th Street Properties LLC
appealed to erect a three-story single family dwelling in a B1 TwoFamily District.
Calendar No. 09-22: 2501 West 8th
Street
West 11th Street Properties LLC
appealed to erect a three-story single family dwelling in a B1 TwoFamily District.
The following
missed:

appeal

was

Dis-

Calendar No. 09-40: 4201 West 130th
Street
Jimmy Christian, d.b.a. AAA Auto
Doctor, tenant, and Gary and Mary
Weinbroer, owners, appealed from a
denied Motor Vehicle Repair Garage
License by the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 09-28: 75 Public Square,
B-100 postponed from April 27 to
May 18, 2009.
Calendar No. 09-44: 1001 Fairfield
Avenue postponed from April 27
to June 8, 2009.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

Calendar No. 09-49/50/51/52/54: 1385
East 36th Street postponed from
April 27 to June 1, 2009.

MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2009

The following appeal heard by the
Board on April 13, 2009, were adopted and approved on April 20, 2009.

At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, April 20,
2009, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.

708

The following appeals were Approved:

The City Record

April 22, 2009
Calendar No. 09-38: 1603 East 43rd
Street
Chen Wei Zhuo appealed to erect
a single family residence in a MultiFamily District.
Calendar No. 09-41: 2154 Thurman
Avenue
Charles Slusarczyk, Jr. appealed
to erect a 16' x 25' two-story second floor habitable room addition to
a single family dwelling in a MultiFamily District.
Calendar No. 09-23: 7201 St. Clair
Avenue
Don Carter appealed to establish
use of an existing gas station as a
vehicle repair garage in a Local
Retail Business District; subject to
conditions.
Calendar No. 09-33: 2509 West 25th
Street
George Sass appealed to establish
use of a vacant parcel as a parking
lot in a General Industry District.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 09-39: 1301 Marquette
Street, a.k.a. 1301 Hamilton Avenue
Bromo
Information
Technology
Ltd. appealed to establish use as a
day care including children under
five years of age in an existing onestory building in a Semi-Industry
District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
April 15, 2009
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
*

*

*

Docket A-2-09.
RE: Appeal of Cecelia K. Grooms,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two and One/half Story Frame
Property located on the premises
known as 10305 Adams Avenue from
a
NOTICE
OF
VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated
December 1, 2008 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to the Appellant
thirty (30) days in which to complete abatement of the violations;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Saab.

Docket A-23-09.
RE: Appeal of Terry Allen/T. Total
Property Management Inc., Owner of
the Six Dwelling Units Two and
One/half Story Frame Multi-family
Property located on the premises
known as 2829 East 116th Street from
a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE,
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, dated December 30, 2008, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to obtain any required permits and
abate all the violations on the property; the property is REMANDED at
this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Saab.
*

*

*

Docket A-24-09.
RE: Appeal of MBP, LLC, Owner
of the Two Dwelling Units TwoFamily Residence Two and One/half
Story Frame Property located on the
premises known as 7403 Berry Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
— GENERAL MAINTENANCE, dated
October 31, 2008 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
No action this date, the docket
will be rescheduled for April 29,
2009.
*

*

*

Docket A-25-09.
RE: Appeal of Nicole C. Johnson,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two and One/half Story Frame
Property located on the premises
known as 3639 East 133rd Street
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, dated December
29, 2008, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-25-09 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
*

*

*

Docket A-26-09.
RE: Appeal of Dorane Biggers,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single Family Residence Two and
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
4244 East 119th Street from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTE-NANCE, dated December 22, 2008 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).

709

19
Docket A-26-09 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for May
27, 2009.
*

*

*

Docket A-29-09.
RE: Appeal of Darryl DeFranco,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 2027 West 47th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
dated January 7, 2009, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
No action this date, the docket
will be rescheduled for April 29,
2009.
*

*

*

Docket A-30-09.
RE: Appeal of Sonya Campbell,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two and
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
582 East 107th Street from a 14 DAY
CONDEMNATION ORDER — MS of
the Director of the Department of
Building
and
Housing,
dated
December 26, 2008, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant fourteen (14) days in
which to obtain permits and three
(3) months to abate the violations;
the property can be occupied upon
agreement with the City, that the
property is safe and operable to be
occupied; the property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saunders and seconded by
Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Saab.
*

*

*

Docket A-31-09.
RE: Appeal of R & L Holdings
LLC, Owner of the Two Story Masonry General Retail Property located
on the premises known as 9701 Denison Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — GENERAL MAINTENANCE, dated January 7, 2009 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
No action this date, the docket
will be rescheduled for April 29,
2009.
*

*

*

Docket A-32-09.
RE:
Appeal
of
Craig
Brown,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two and One/half Story Frame
Property located on the premises
known as 10009 Adams Avenue from
a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE,
dated

The City Record

20
November 12, 2009 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-32-09 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for a
later date.
*

*

*

Docket A-42-09.
RE: Appeal of Durham Properties,
Ltd., Owner of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence Two
and One/half Story Frame Property
located on the premises known as
2451 West 11th Street from a CONDEMNATION ORDER — MS, dated
June 11, 2008 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain permits and one hundred
twenty (120) days to abate the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motioned by Mr. Saunders
and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Saab.
*

*

*

Docket A-43-09.
RE: Appeal of Dwayne A. Dent,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
and
One/half Story Frame Property located on the premises known as 3624
East 144th Street from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER — MS AND
GARAGE, dated August 12, 2008 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to give the Appellant seven (7) days in which to
obtain permits, noting that the
Appellant has stated that he will
get the permits in three (3) days,
and to grant the Appellant sixty
(60) days to totally complete rehabilitation of the property. Abatement
of all violations, with satisfactory
progress being made, should be
reported back to the Board within
thirty (30) days by the inspector,
noting that should any of those
dates be missed, the property will be
REMANDED immediately to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Saab.
*

*

*

Docket A-45-09.
RE: Appeal of Derek Ng (Greenapple Properties LLC), Owner of the
Two Dwelling Units Two-Family
Residence Two and One/half Story
Frame Property located on the

premises known as 9809 Parkview
Avenue from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER — MS, dated April
11, 2006 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-45-09 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for a
later date.
*

*

*

Docket A-48-09.
RE: Appeal of Charles & Marilyn
Johnson, Owners of the One Dwelling Unit Single Family Residence
Two Story Frame Property located
on the premises known as 19505
Mohican Avenue from a NOTICEOF
VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated January 28, 2009 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant fourteen (14) days in
which to obtain permits and sixty
(60) days in which to abate all the
violations; the property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Saab.
*

*

*

Docket A-50-09.
RE: Appeal of Wilson A. Leece II,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single Family Residence Two and
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
3174 West 105th Street from a
NOTICEOF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTE-NANCE, dated December 3, 2008 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-50-09 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for a
later date.
*

*

from the street and abatement of
the violations at a today to present
an approvable solution to the City
for the safety of the citizens during
the period of time of reconstruction
and to present a plan of reconstruction to the City, including time
agreement to the City from that
date; the property is REMANDED at
this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision and any require further action.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Gallagher,
Bradley.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Saunders for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-7-09—Cheryll Miller.
A-14-09—Vernell Leeks.
A-16-09—Chris Shaw and Jim Konchan.
A-18-09—Erwind Blount.
A-20-09—Tiffany chambers.
A-22-09—Peter P. Leneghan.
A-82-09—Tylerville, LLC.
A-87-09—University Hospitals.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Saab.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
April 1, 2009
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Saab.
* * *
Secretary

*

Docket A-79-09.
RE: Appeal of Hattenbach Properties LLC, Owner of the F-2 Factory — Low Hazard (Non-combustibles) One Story Masonry SemiIndustry Property located on the
premises known as 1961 East 61st
Street from a FORTHWITH CONDEMNATION ORDER — MS, dated
February 3, 2009 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant seven (7) days from timelines to the City for immediate
review and two (2) weeks after
approval by the City to erect a suitable barrier; to remove the debris

710

April 22, 2009

PUBLIC NOTICE
Notice of Public Meeting of the
City of Cleveland Records Commission
Notice is hereby given in accordance Chapter 149 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Chapter 167 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland,
that
the
Cleveland
Records Commission will hold a public meeting on Thursday, April 30,
2009 at 10:00 A.M. in Room 106 of
City Hall, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio for the purpose of
considering records retention and
disposal requests.
_____
April 22, 2009 and April 29, 2009

April 22, 2009
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, April 29, 2009
1:00 p.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a public hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
Wednesday, April 29, 2009, at 1:00
p.m., to consider the following ordinance now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 280-09.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of land on the southeast corner of East 30th Street and Saint
Clair Avenue to Residence Office.
(Map Change No. 2272 Sheet No. 4).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Joseph C. Cimperman
Chairman
Committee on City Planning
_____
April 15, 2009 and April 22, 2009

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as speci-

The City Record
fied by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, MAY 6, 2009
File No. 65-09 — Frank Novak Park,
Halloran Park Plaza, Halloran
Park Spray Basin, Harmody Park
Tennis Courts, Mercedes Cotner
Park Parking Lot, for the Division of Research, Planning and
Development, Department of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 69007, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 11, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT
OF A FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00)
IN THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER. (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING THURSDAY,
APRIL 30, 2009 AT 11:00 A.M.,
THE BURKE LAKEFRONT AIRPORT, FIRST FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM, 1501 NORTH MARGINAL
ROAD,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERRENCE.
File No. 66-09 — Tony Brush Park
Site Improvements Phase II, for
the Division of Research, Planning and Development, Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 451-08, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 9,
2008.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT
OF A FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00)
IN THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER. (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING THURSDAY,
APRIL 30, 2009 AT 11:30 A.M.,
THE BURKE LAKEFRONT AIRPORT, FIRST FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM, 1501 NORTH MARGINAL
ROAD,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERRENCE.
April 22, 2009 and April 29, 2009
WEDNESDAY, MAY 20, 2009
File No. 64-09 — Labels and Re-Labeling of File Folders (Re-Bid), for
the Division of Cleveland Municipal Court, Department of Finance,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
1818-08, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, December 8,
2008.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
FRIDAY,
MAY 8, 2009 AT 10:00 A.M., THE

711

21
JUSTICE CENTER, LEVEL TWO,
1200 ONTARIO STREET, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44113.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERRENCE.
April 22, 2009 and April 29, 2009

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 110-09.
By Council Members Reed and
Santiago.
An emergency resolution urging
the Governor of the State of Ohio
and General Assembly of the State
of Ohio to examine other states’ regulation of cell phone use and text
messaging while driving and consider passing similar legislation.
Whereas,
The
National
Safety
Council said using a cell phone
while driving quadruples drivers’
risk of getting into an accident; and
Whereas, the safety council cites
statistics from the Harvard Center
for Risk Analysis that show 2,600
deaths a year are caused by drivers
distracted by cell phones, and another 330,00 injuries; and
Whereas, Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company’s 2007 survey of
dangerous driver behavior found
that 73 percent of 1,200 drivers talk
on cell phones while driving, and
use was the highest among young
drivers; and
Whereas, some studies have shown
that driving while on the phone is
the same as being legally drunk or
having a blood-alcohol level of .08
percent; and
Whereas, the safety council encourages states to regulate cell
phone use while driving and to
include text messaging technology
in any regulation; and
Whereas, many states, including
New York, New Jersey, Connecticut,
and California ban the use of cell
phones while driving or require a
hands-free device; and
Whereas, The Public Policy Institute of California’s study concluded
that the ban on using hand-held cell
phones will reduce traffic deaths by
about 300 a year in adverse conditions, such as on wet or icy roads;
and
Whereas, as many as 40 countries
may restrict or prohibit the use of
cell phones while driving, including
Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil,
Botswana, Chile, the Czech Republic,
Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, India,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan,
Kenya, Malaysia, the Netherlands,
Norway, the Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Russia, Singapore, the Slovak Republic, Slovenia,
South Africa, South Korea, Spain,
Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Turkey, Turkmenistan, the United Kingdom and Zimbabwe; and
Whereas, according to the Governors Highway Safety Association,
four states — Alaska, Minnesota,
New Jersey and Washington — outlaw text messaging while driving
and legislation is being considered
in 16 other states; and
Whereas, mobile texters in the
United States sent 158 billion messages in 2006, up 95 percent from

22
2005, according to industry statistics
cited by the New York Times; and
Whereas, according to a 2006
study by Nationwide Insurance, 19
percent of drivers use text messaging while at the wheel and that
number jumped to 37 percent among
drivers aged 18 to 27; and
Whereas, a national American Automobile Association survey of 1,000 16
and 17-year-old drivers found that 46
percent send text messages with
their cell phones while driving; and
Whereas, each year, 21% of fatal
car crashes involving teenagers between the ages of 16 and 19 were
the result of cell phone use and this
result is expected to grow as much
as 4% every year; and
Whereas, in one tragic accident in
Canandaigua,
New
York,
police
found that text messages were sent
and received on a 17-year-old driver’s cell phone moments before the
vehicle slammed head-on into a
truck, killing her and four other
recent high school graduates; and
Whereas, this Council believes
that regulation of cell phone use
and text messaging while driving is
necessary for the health and safety
of Ohio citizens; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the General Assembly of the State
of Ohio to examine other states’ regulation of cell phone use and text
messaging while driving and consider passing similar legislation.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
two certified copies of this resolution to the General Assembly of the
State of Ohio, the Speaker of the
Ohio House of Representatives, the
Ohio Senate President, the Ohio Legislative
Black
Caucus,
Governor
Strickland, and Mayor Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 13, 2009.
Effective April 20, 2009.

Res. No. 484-09.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the Liquor Agency Contract
and the transfer of ownership of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit located at
18235 Euclid Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a
Liquor Agency Contract and the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from Greenlite
Beverage and Liquor, Inc., DBA
Greenlite Beverage & Liquor, 18235
Euclid
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44112, Permanent Number 3350248 to
Rida, Inc., DBA Green Lite Beverage
& Liquor, Unit DD, 18235 Euclid
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permanent Number 7362661; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already

The City Record
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a Liquor
Agency Contract and the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit from Greenlite Beverage and
Liquor, Inc., DBA Greenlite Beverage & Liquor, 18235 Euclid Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permanent
Number 3350248 to Rida, Inc., DBA
Green Lite Beverage & Liquor, Unit
DD, 18235 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44112,
Permanent
Number
7362661; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 13, 2009.
Effective April 20, 2009.

Res. No. 485-09.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to 4716 State Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor

712

April 22, 2009
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2,
D3 and D3A Liquor Permit from
Sports Inn, LLC, 4716 State Road, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent Number 8440222 to
NK Beverage, Inc., 4716 State Road,
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44109,
Permanent
Number
6277278; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit from Sports Inn,
LLC, 4716 State Road, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44109,
Permanent Number 8440222 to NK
Beverage, Inc., 4716 State Road, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent Number 6277278;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 13, 2009.
Effective April 20, 2009.

The City Record

April 22, 2009

23

Ord. No. 503-08.
By Council Members Johnson, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 133.29 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 738-06, passed May 15, 2006, relating to golf course rates.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 133.29 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
738-06, passed May 15, 2006, is amended to read as follows:
Section 133.29 Golf Course Rates
The Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties is authorized to collect following rates at municipal golf
courses, provided, however, that the fees regarding banquet room rental at Highland Park may be amended from
time to time by the Board of Control:
(a) Regular rates. To qualify for City Residency rates, a player must reside in the City of Cleveland and verify residency by providing photo identification and one other item determined by the Commissioner of Recreation
to be acceptable proof.
(1)

(2)

For City residents:

Monday-Friday

Weekends

9 holes
18 holes

$11.50
$22.00

$12.00
$23.00

Monday-Friday

Weekends

$12.50
$24.00

$13.00
$25.00

For non-City residents:
9 holes
18 holes

(b) Senior rates: (Applicable before 3:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and after 3:00 p.m. on weekends and
holidays). To qualify for senior rates, a player must be at least sixty (60) years old and must provide positive
photo identification. To also qualify for City Residency rates, a player must reside in the City of Cleveland and
verify residency and age by providing photo identification and one other item determined by the Commissioner
of Recreation to be acceptable proof.
(1)

For City residents:

Rate

9 holes
18 holes
(2)

$ 8.00
$15.00

For non-City residents:

Rate

9 holes
18 holes

$ 9.00
$17.00

(c) 18-Hole Special Rate: (Applicable before 3:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and after 3:00 p.m. on weekends
and holidays). To qualify for the discounted green fee, a player would be required to rent a riding cart.
(1)

For City residents:

Rate

Regular
Senior
(2)

$18.00
$14.00

For non-City residents:

Rate

Regular
Senior

$20.00
$16.00

(d) Junior rates: (Applicable before 3:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and after 3:00 p.m. on weekends and
holidays). To qualify for junior rates, a player must be eighteen (18) years old or younger and must provide
positive photo identification. To also qualify for City Residency rates, a player must reside in the City of Cleveland
and verify residency and age by providing photo identification and one other item determined by the Commissioner
of Recreation to be acceptable proof.
(1)

For City residents:

Rate

9 holes
18 holes
(2)

Free
$ 8.00

For non-City residents:

Rate

9 holes
18 holes

$ 9.00
$17.00

(e) Winter rates: To qualify for City Residency rates, a player must reside in the City of Cleveland and verify
residency by providing photo identification and one other item determined by the Commissioner of Recreation to
be acceptable proof. The Commissioner of Recreation shall determine, based on weather and course conditions,
the dates during which winter rates shall be in effect.

713

The City Record

24
(1)

For City residents:

Rate

9 holes
18 holes
(2)

April 22, 2009

$10.00
$19.00

For non-City residents:

Rate

9 holes
18 holes

$11.00
$21.00

(f) Additional 9 holes. Players under categories listed above who purchase a 9-hole ticket and wish to play an
additional 9 holes may do so by presenting the 9-hole ticket to the cashier within three hours from the time of
purchase and paying the additional amount required to equal the 18-hole rate.
(g) Group, promotional and other reduced rates. Effective until January 1, 2010, the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties subject to Board of Control approval, is authorized to establish and collect group, promotional,
and other reduced rates at municipal golf courses in amounts that do not exceed the per person rates listed in
division (a) through (f) of this section.
(h) Tent Rental: $230.00
(i) Banquet Room Rental at Highland Park.
(1) All rental rates for the banquet room shall be set by the Board of Control, which shall include rental
schedules for City residents and non-City residents.
(2) Rental rates shall be based on a four (4) hour period, which will include at no charge up to one (1)
hour before the event for set-up and up to one (1) hour after the event for clean-up. Any events, not including
the above-referenced set-up and clean-up times, exceeding the four (4) hour period, shall be charged for each
additional hour, or portion of an hour, used. Rental rates for the room, including additional charges for exceeding
the four (4) hour period, shall be set by the Board of Control. The banquet room closes at 12:00 a.m. on Friday
through Sunday and Holidays and at times determined by the Commissioner of Recreation on Monday through
Thursday. All events shall end one-half hour before the facility closes. The City’s Concessionaire shall be used
exclusively to provide food and beverages for all catered events, unless the Director approves the use of an
independent caterer. All beverages, including alcoholic beverages, shall be purchased from the City or the City’s
Concessionaire. Security is to be provided through the Village of Highland Hills Police Department and it is the
responsibility of the group renting the banquet room to arrange and pay for such security, as billed by the Village
of Highland Hills Police Department.
(3) Rental of the banquet room for golf outings. The golf outing must conclude one-half hour before the
golf course closing time. Events exceeding the four (4) hour rental period described above, are subject to additional
charges. If the event is to be catered by the City’s Concessionaire, the rental fee for the room for a maximum
period of four (4) hours, shall be included in the caterer’s per-person meal cost.
(4) Golf leagues established for the season at Highland or Seneca golf courses may use the banquet room
at no charge once per golf season. Events shall be held Monday through Friday and shall conclude by 5:00 p.m.
(j) Net proceeds from fees collected at the Highland and Seneca Golf Courses shall be expended for facility
improvements at the golf courses.
Section 2. That existing Section 133.29 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 738-06, passed May 15, 2006, is repealed.
Section 3. That after January 1, 2010, the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties shall report to the Committee on Public Parks, Property & Recreation regarding the impact and effect of the group, promotional, and
other reduced golf course rates established and collected under division (g) of Section 133.29.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed April 13, 2009.
Effective April 20, 2009.

Ord. No. 1736-08.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 110.01 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 1632-94,
passed September 1, 1994; to repeal
Sections 110.03 to 110.09, as enacted
by Ordinance No. 1632-94, passed September 1, 1994; to supplement by
enacting new Section 110.03; and to
repeal Sections 110A.01 to 110A.06, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 625-95,
passed May 15, 1995, relating to campaign finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 110.01 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordi-

nance No. 1632-94, passed September
1, 1994, is amended to read as follows:
Section 110.01 Definitions
The following definitions shall apply to Chapter 110:
(a)
“Campaign
committee”
or
“committee” means any candidate or
combination of two or more persons
acting jointly to bring about the
nomination or election of one or
more candidates for the office of the
Mayor or the office of a member of
Council.
(b) “Candidate” means any individual listed on a ballot for nomination to or election to the office of
the Mayor or the office of a member of Council, or who has organized
a campaign committee for the purpose of engaging in a write-in campaign for election to the office of
the Mayor or the office of a member of Council, or who files a dec-

714

laration of intent to be a write-in
candidate pursuant to the general
laws of the state, or who receives a
contribution or makes an expenditure or gives his or her consent for
any other person to receive a contribution or make an expenditure
with a view toward bringing about
his or her candidacy or election to
the office of the Mayor or the office
of a member of Council.
(c) “Contribution” means a gift,
loan, advance, deposit, forgiveness
of indebtedness, donation, payment
or transfer of money or transfer of
anything of value, made directly or
indirectly in aid of the nomination
or election of one or more candidates for the office of the Mayor or
the office of a member of Council.
It shall not include services provided
without
compensation
by
individuals volunteering a portion
or all of their time or ordinary
home
hospitality
or
personal

April 22, 2009
expenses of a volunteer paid for by
that volunteer.
(d) “Election” means any primary,
regular or special election held in
the City for the office of Mayor or
the office of member of Council.
(e) “Election campaign period”
means either (1) a period of time
commencing on January 1 of the
year in which a general municipal
election for the choice of elective
offices provided for in the Charter
occurs and ending on December 31
of the same year; or (2) a period of
time commencing on the day that a
person is selected to fill a vacancy
in the office of the Mayor of the
office of a member of Council until
his or her successor is selected at a
special municipal election and ending thirty (30) days after said special election.
(f) “Person” shall mean any individual,
partnership,
corporation,
association, firm, committee, club or
other organization or group of persons, however organized.
(g) “Political action committee”
means a combination of two (2) or
more persons the primary or incidental purpose of which is to support or oppose any candidate, political party, or issue, or to influence
the result of any election, and that
is neither a political party nor a
campaign committee.
(h) “Political party” shall have
the same meaning as contained in
RC Title XXXV, as the same shall
be amended from time to time.
Section 2. That existing Sections
110.01, 110.03, 110.04, 110.05, 110.06,
110.07, 110.08, and 110.09 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as enacted by Ordinance No.
1632-94, passed September 1, 1994,
are repealed.
Section 3. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 110.03 to read as follows:
Section 110.03
Notice; Appeals;
Penalties
(a) Any person who violates Sections 110.02 shall be given written
notice of the violation by the Director of Law. There shall be no penalty for any prohibited activity set
forth in Section 110.02 which is
remedied within fifteen (15) days of
notice of the violation.
(b) Any person who is cited pursuant to division (a) shall have thirty (30) days in which to appeal the
finding of the Director of Law to the
Board of Zoning Appeals. In the
event that written notice of intent
to appeal is received by the Board
of Zoning Appeals within the thirty
(30) day period, the Board shall
schedule a public hearing of the
matter, setting forth a date, time
and place and giving written notice
to the appellant. Any person so cited
will be entitled to representation, to
present evidence on his or her
behalf and to cross examine any
witness. The Board shall render a
decision within five (5) days after
taking all arguments and testimony
and completion of the public hearing which decision shall be final.
(c) Any person, candidate, or campaign committee violating any prohibition in Section 110.02 shall be
fined up to five hundred dollars
($500.00). A second or subsequent

The City Record
violation of any prohibition in Section 110.02 shall incur a fine up to
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
Section 4. That Sections 110A.01,
110A.02, 110A.03, 110A.04, 110A.05,
and 110A.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 625-95,
passed May 15, 1995, are repealed.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 13, 2009.
Effective April 20, 2009.

Ord. No. 1744-08.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Cummins.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 670.15 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 171-04,
passed February 2, 2004, relating to
the type of firearms carried by commissioned armed security guards.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 670.15 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 171-04, passed February 2,
2004 is amended as follows:
Section 670.15 Firearms
In no event shall a commissioned
armed security guard use or carry
any type of firearm other than a .38
caliber revolver or a 9mm semi-automatic pistol, provided that the guard
shall not carry or use a 9mm semiautomatic pistol unless the guard
has first completed at least 32 hours
of training in handgun use approved
by the Ohio peace officer training
commission and presents to the
Director of Public Safety a certificate of satisfactory completion of
the course of study.
If a commissioned armed security
guard discharges his or her firearm
in the City other than at a training
range, then the guard shall report
that fact to the Division of Police
immediately after the incident and
to the Director of Public Safety, in
writing, the same or next business
day.
Nothing in this chapter shall
relieve a person from the provisions
and prohibitions contained in Section 2923.12 of the Revised Code
relating to carrying a concealed
weapon, or any other federal, state
or local law with respect to the possession or discharge of firearms.
Section 2. That existing Section
670.15 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, as amended by
Ordinance 171-04, passed February 2,
2004, is repealed.
Section 3. That by May 1st of each
year, the Director of Public Safety
shall report to the Public Safety

715

25
Committee the number and identity
of persons who have been found eligible to carry or use a 9mm semiautomatic pistol under Section 670.15,
and all incidents reported by armed
security guards that a firearm was
discharged.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 13, 2009.
Effective April 20, 2009.

Ord. No. 3-09.
By
Council
Members
Kelley,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to repeal
Section 3 of Ordinance No. 861-08,
passed July 2, 2008; to renumber
existing Section 4 of that ordinance
to new Section 3; and to repeal Ordinance No. 1873-08, passed December
8, 2008, relating to obstructions within the Harbor and relating penalty.
Whereas, on July 2, 2008, this
Council passed Ordinance No. 861-08,
which authorized amendments to
Sections 573.02, 573.04, 573.05, 573.10,
and 573.99 relating to obstructions
within the harbor and its relating
penalty; and
Whereas, Section 3 of Ordinance
No. 861-08 contained language which
reverted Sections 573.02 and 573.04
back to their original, unamended
versions unless Council passed additional legislation by December 31,
2008; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1873-08,
passed December 8, 2008, amended
Ordinance No. 861-08 to extend the
authority of the amended versions
of Sections 573.02 and 573.04 until
June 30, 2009; and
Whereas, it is the intention of this
Council, by repealing Section 3 of
Ordinance No. 861-08, which contained the December 31, 2008 reversionary date, and by repealing Ordinance No. 1873-08, which extended
the reversionary date to June 30,
2009, to permanently enact Sections
573.02 and 573.04 as authorized in
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 861-08,
passed July 2, 2008, effective July 7,
2008; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 3 of Ordinance No. 861-08, passed July 2, 2008
is repealed.
Section 2. That existing Section 4
of Ordinance No. 861-08, passed July
2, 2008 is renumbered to new “Section 3”.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 187308, passed December 8, 2008, is repealed.
Section 4. That not later than
October 1st of each year, the Director of Port Control shall report to
the Aviation and Transportation Com-

26
mittee all notice activity and other
actions taken under the authority of
Section 573.02 and 573.04.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 13, 2009.
Effective April 20, 2009.

Ord. No. 105-09.
By Council Members Reed, Conwell, Mitchell, Santiago and Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 433.09 prohibiting the
use of wireless handsets to text message while driving.
Whereas, according to the Governors Highway Safety Association,
four states — Alaska, Minnesota,
New Jersey and Washington — outlaw text messaging while driving
and legislation is being considered
in 16 other states; and
Whereas, mobile texters in the
United States sent 158 billion messages in 2006, up 95 percent from
2005, according to industry statistics
cited by the New York Times; and
Whereas, according to a 2006
study by Nationwide Insurance, 19
percent of drivers use text messaging while at the wheel and that
number jumped to 37 percent among
drivers aged 18 to 27; and
Whereas, a national American
Automobile Association survey of
1,000 16 and 17-year-old drivers
found that 46 percent send text messages with their cell phones while
driving; and
Whereas, each year, 21% of fatal
car crashes involving teenagers between the ages of 16 and 19 were
the result of cell phone use and this
result is expected to grow as much
as 4% every year; and
Whereas, in one tragic accident in
Canandaigua,
New
York,
police
found that text messages were sent
and received on a 17-year-old driver’s cell phone moments before the
vehicle slammed head-on into a
truck, killing her and four other
recent high school graduates; and
Whereas, this Council believes that
regulation of text messaging while
driving is necessary for the health
and safety of Ohio citizens; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, are hereby supplemented
by enacting new Section 433.09 to
read as follows:
Section 433.09
Text Messaging
While Driving
(a) As used in this section:
(1) “Text message” means a message sent or received via a process
using wireless handsets. For the

The City Record
purposes of this section, an e-mail
shall be considered a “text message.”
(2) “Wireless handset” means a
portable electronic device capable of
transmitting or receiving data in the
form of a text message.
(b) No person shall use a wireless
handset to compose, send or read
text messages while driving a motor
vehicle in the City of Cleveland.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of division b, this section shall
not be construed to prohibit the use
of a wireless handset inside a motor
vehicle to compose, send or read a
text message by:
(1) a driver using a wireless
handset to contact any law enforcement, police officers, emergency services personnel, emergency medical
technicians, or fire safety officials
to report an emergency situation; or
2. a driver using a wireless handset inside a motor vehicle while
such vehicle is parked, standing or
stopped and is removed from the
flow of traffic, in accordance with
applicable laws or rules, or is
stopped due to the inoperability of
such vehicle.
(d) Penalty. Whoever violates this
section shall be fined one hundred
dollars for the first offense, two
hundred and fifty dollars for a second offense, and no more than five
hundred dollars for each subsequent
offense.
Section 2. That the provisions of
Section 433.09(d) shall take effect
ninety days after the effective date
of this ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 13, 2009.
Effective April 20, 2009.

Ord. No. 183-09.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to perform environmental analytical laboratory services
needed to comply with regulatory
permits and orders, and for miscellaneous
sampling,
environmental
compliance strategies, environmental modeling efforts, and reporting,
for a period of two years, with two
one-year options to renew, the first
of which is exercisable through
additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed

716

April 22, 2009
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to
provide professional services necessary to perform environmental analytical laboratory services needed to
comply with regulatory permits and
orders, and for miscellaneous sampling,
environmental
compliance
strategies, environmental modeling
efforts, and reporting, for a period
of two years with two one-year
options to renew. The first of the
one-year options to renew may not
be exercised without additional legislative authority. If such additional legislative authority is granted
and the first of the one-year options
to renew is exercised, then the second of the one-year options to renew
may be exercisable at the option of
the Director of Port Control, without
the necessity of obtaining additional authority of this Council.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Port Control for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be
paid for the services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001,
60 SF 105, 60 SF 106, 60 SF 140, 60
SF 141, and from the fund or funds
to which are credited any grants
issued for this purpose, Request No.
175238.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 13, 2009.
Effective April 20, 2009.

Ord. No. 279-09.
By Council Members Zone, Sweeney
and Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance to add
the name of Ed Hauser Way as a
secondary name to Whiskey Island
Drive.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
to add the name of Ed Hauser Way
as a secondary name to Whiskey
Island Drive.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all

April 22, 2009
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately on its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 13, 2009.
Effective April 20, 2009.

Ord. No. 392-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of the criminal and civil filing system, including materials necessary to file and
retrieve cases, for the Department of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, for a period of one
year, with a one-year option to
renew.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Clerk of
the Cleveland Municipal Courts, is
authorized to make one or more
written requirement contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
the requirements for the period of
one year, with an option to renew
for an additional one-year term,
exercisable
by
the
Director
of
Finance, of the necessary items of
criminal and civil filing system,
including but not limited to folders,
labels, tabs, envelopes, shelving, and
other materials necessary to file and
retrieve cases, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Department of Finance, on behalf of the
Cleveland Municipal Court. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than one year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 181471)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Finance, on behalf of the
Clerk of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, may sign all documents with
the State of Ohio or any of its polit-

The City Record
ical subdivisions that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may
enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 13, 2009.
Effective April 20, 2009.

Ord. No. 411-09.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 605.11 relating to misconduct involving a public transportation system.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 605.11 to read as follows:
Section 605.11 Misconduct Involving a Public Transportation System
(a) No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public transportation system.
(b) No person shall alter any
transfer, pass, ticket, or token of a
public transportation system with
the purpose of evading the payment
of fares or of defrauding the system.
[RC 2917.41]
(c) Whoever violates division (a)
or division (b) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor on
the first offense and a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree on the second
and any subsequent offense.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 13, 2009.
Effective April 20, 2009.

Ord. No. 482-09.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development to
stretch banners at East 55th and
Scovill near East Tech and east
side, for the period from May 27,
2009 to June 27, 2009, inclusive, publicizing the Fourth Annual Ward 5
Family Festival.

717

27
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to Burten, Bell, Carr
Development to install, maintain
and remove banners at East 55th
and Scovill near East Tech east side
for the period from May 27, 2009 to
June 27, 200, inclusive. Said banner
shall be approved by the Director of
Public Service, in consultation with
the Director of Public Safety, as to
type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any
sign erected and maintained under
the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner
of any pole from which a banner
will be hung must be obtained prior
to issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed
or permitted on said banner and
said
banner
shall
be
removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 13, 2009.
Effective April 20, 2009.

Ord. No. 486-09.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter
into an agreement with Esperanza
Inc. for the Prime Time Summer Enrichment Program and Youth Leadership Academy through the use of
Ward 14 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with Esperanza Inc., for the Prime
Time Summer Enrichment Program
and Youth Leadership Academy for
the public purpose of providing summer educational activities to city of
Cleveland youths through the use of
Ward 14 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $50,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.

The City Record

28
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 13, 2009.
Effective April 20, 2009.

Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 13, 2009.
Effective April 20, 2009.

Ord. No. 487-09.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Community Development to enter
into an agreement with the Julia De
Burgos Cultural Arts Center for the
Cultural
Instructional
Program
through the use of Ward 14 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with the Julia De Burgos Cultural
Arts Center for the Cultural Instructional Program for the public purpose of providing cultural arts education to city of Cleveland youths
through the use of Ward 14 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $35,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.

Ord. No. 488-09.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Community Development to enter
into an agreement with the Spanish
American Committee for the Foreclosure Prevention Program through
the use of Ward 14 Neighborhood
Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with The Spanish American Committee for the Foreclosure Prevention Program for the public purpose
of providing education and counseling to city of Cleveland homeowners to prevent home foreclosures
through the use of Ward 14 Neighborhood Capital Fund.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $35,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions

April 22, 2009
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 13, 2009.
Effective April 20, 2009.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Monday, April 20, 2009
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair;
Brady, Conwell, Keane, Pierce Scott,
Brancatelli, Cleveland, Westbrook,
Coats, Kelley.
Tuesday, April 21, 2009
1:30 p.m.
Employment, Affirmative Action
and Training Committee: Present:
Coats, Chair; Santiago, Vice Chair;
Mitchell, Pruitt. Authorized Absence:
Cummins, Johnson, Conwell.
Wednesday, April 22, 2009
10:00 a.m.
Public Safety
CELLED.

Committee:

CAN-

1:30 p.m.
Public Utilities Committee: Present:
Zone,
Chair;
Reed,
Vice
Chair;
Polensek,
Keane,
Kelley,
Westbrook, Wilkes. Authorized Absence:
Cummins, Santiago.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Julia De Burgos Cultural Arts Center — Cultural Instructional Program (Ward 14)
(O 487-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prime Time Summer Enrichment Program and Youth Leadership Academy —
Esperanza Inc., (Ward 14) (O 486-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Property adoption agreement with Little Italy Redevelopment Corp. and to move &
accept gift of statue (O 505-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Spanish American Committee — Foreclosure Prevention Program (Ward 14)
(O 488-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 718
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 717
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 718

Appreciation
Father’s Dream Appliances (R 536-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694
Banners
Burten, Bell, Carr Development — East 55th and Scovill — May 27, 2009 to June 27, 2009 —
Ward 5 Family Festival (Fourth Annual) (O 482-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 717

718

April 22, 2009

The City Record

29

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Adams Avenue, 10009, (Ward 8) — Craig Brown, owner — appeal postponed to later date on
4/15/09 (Doc. A-32-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
Adams Avenue, 10305, (Ward 8) — Cecelia K. Grooms, owner — appeal resolved on
4/15/09 (Doc. A-2-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
Berry Avenue, 7403, (Ward 17) — MBP, LLC., owner — appeal rescheduled to 04/29/09
on 4/15/09 (Doc. A-24-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
Clifton Boulevard, 10710, (Ward 18) — Chris Shaw & Jim Konschan, owner —
appeal adopted on 4/15/09 (Doc. A-16-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
Denison Avenue, 9701, (Ward 18) — R&L Holdings, LLC, owner — appeal rescheduled to
04/29/09 on 4/15/09 (Doc. A-31-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
East 107th Street, 582, (Ward 8) — Sonya Campbell, owner — appeal resolved on
4/15/09 (Doc. A-30-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
East 116th Street, 2829, (Ward 6) — Terry Allen/T. Total Property Management Inc., owner —
appeal resolved on 4/15/09 (Doc. A-23-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
East 119th Street, 4244, (Ward 2) — Dorane Biggers, owner — appeal rescheduled to
05/27/09 on 4/15/09 (Doc. A-26-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
East 120th Street, 3934, (Ward 2) — Erwind Blount/Blount Properties, owner —
appeal adopted on 4/15/09 (Doc. A-18-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
East 133rd Street, 3639, (Ward 3) — Nicole C. Johnson, owner — appeal withdrawn on
4/15/09 (Doc. A-25-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
East 144th Street, 3624, (Ward 3) — Dwayne A. Dent., owner — appeal resolved on 4/15/09
(Doc. A-43-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
East 61st Street, 1961, (Ward 5) — Hattenbach Properties LLC, owner — appeal resolved on
4/15/09 (Doc. A-79-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
East 76th Street, 987, (Ward 8) — Tiffany Chambers, owner — appeal adopted on
4/15/09 (Doc. A-20-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
East 81st Street, 2205, (Ward 6) — Cheryll Miller, owner — appeal adopted on 4/15/09
(Doc. A-7-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
East 95th Street, 4215, (Ward 4) — Vernell Leeks, owner — appeal adopted on 4/15/09
(Doc. A-14-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
Euclid Avenue, 11100, (Ward 6) — University Hospitals Health System, owner — appeal
adopted on 4/15/09 (Doc. A-87-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
Mohican Avenue, 19505, (Ward 11) — Charles & Marilyn Johnson, owner — appeal resolved on
4/15/09 (Doc. A-48-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
Parkview Avenue, 9809, (Ward 4) — Derek Ng (Greenapple Properties LLC)., owner — appeal
resolved on 4/15/09 (Doc. A-45-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
Superior Avenue, 3615, (Ward 13) — Tylerville, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on
4/15/09 (Doc. A-82-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
West 105th Street, 3174, (Ward 19) — Wilson A. Leece II, owner — appeal postponed
to later date on 4/15/09 (Doc. A-50-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
West 11th Street, 2451, (Ward 13) — Durham Properties, Ltd., owner — appeal resolved on
4/15/09 (Doc. A-42-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
West 47th Street, 2027, (Ward 14) — Darryl DeFranco, owner — appeal rescheduled to
04/29/09 on 4/15/09 (Doc. A-29-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
West 65th Street, 1306, (Ward 17) — Peter P. Leneghan, owner — appeal adopted on 4/15/09
(Doc. A-22-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Environmental, health, safety, sustainability and engineering services — contract
per Ord. 735-08 to Resource International, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 128-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705
Insurance, fire and extended property — contract per Ord. 1169-08 to Hylant Group —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 127-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705

Board of Control — Gateway Garages
East and West garage management — contract per Ord. 1345-08 to
Standard Parking — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 135-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707

719

The City Record

30

April 22, 2009

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Ford truck parts and labor — contract per to C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Valley Ford Truck, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 134-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707
Lubricants — contract per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Frank Blackmon — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 132-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706
Lubricants — contract per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Northeast Lubricants, Ltd. — Dept. of
Public Service (BOC Res. 133-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706

Board of Control — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Gateway East and Gateway West garage management —
contract per Ord. 1345-08 to Standard Parking
(BOC Res. 135-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707

Board of Control — Personnel and Human Resources Department
Workers’ compensation claims management and actuarial services —
contract per Ord. 195-09 to Associated Compensation Resources, Inc.
(BOC Res. 136-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Uniforms — contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to B.P. Britches, Inc., d.b.a. Christopher’s
(BOC Res. 129-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705
Uniforms — contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Schwarz Uniform Corporation
(BOC Res. 130-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Environmental, health, safety, sustainability and engineering services —
contract per Ord. 735-08 to Resource International, Inc. — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 128-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705
Gateway East and Gateway West garage management — contract per
Ord. 1345-08 to Standard Parking — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and
Properties (BOC Res. 135-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707
Insurance, fire and extended property — contract per Ord. 1169-08 to
Hylant Group — Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 127-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705
Workers’ compensation claims management and actuarial services —
contract per Ord. 195-09 to Associated Compensation Resources, Inc. —
Dept. of Personnel and Human Resources (BOC Res. 136-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Cold mix materials — amend BOC Res. 7-09 — Division of Streets —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 131-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706
Ford truck parts and labor — contract per to C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Valley
Ford Truck, Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(BOC Res. 134-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707
Lubricants — contract per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Frank Blackmon —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 132-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706
Lubricants — contract per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Northeast Lubricants, Ltd. —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 133-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Cold mix materials — amend BOC Res. 7-09 — Division of Streets, Dept of
Public Service — Division of Water (BOC Res. 131-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706
Environmental, health, safety, sustainability and engineering services —
contract per Ord. 735-08 to Resource International, Inc.
(BOC Res. 128-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705
Insurance, fire and extended property — contract per Ord. 1169-08 to
Hylant Group — Division of Cleveland Public Power
(BOC Res. 127-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705

720

April 22, 2009

The City Record

31

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Cold mix materials — amend BOC Res. 7-09 — Division of Streets,
Dept of Public Service — Division of Water, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 131-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706
Ford truck parts and labor — contract per to C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Valley Ford
Truck, Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 134-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707
Lubricants — contract per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Frank Blackmon — Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 132-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706
Lubricants — contract per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Northeast Lubricants, Ltd. —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 133-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706
Uniforms — contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to B.P. Britches, Inc., d.b.a.
Christopher’s — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 129-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705
Uniforms — contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Schwarz Uniform Corporation —
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 130-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706

Board of Control — Streets Division
Cold mix materials — amend BOC Res. 7-09 — Dept of Public Service —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 131-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706

Board of Control — Water Division
Cold mix materials — amend BOC Res. 7-09 — Division of Streets, Dept of
Public Service — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 131-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706
Environmental, health, safety, sustainability and engineering services —
contract per Ord. 735-08 to Resource International, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 128-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Environmental, health, safety, sustainability and engineering services —
contract per Ord. 735-08 to Resource International, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 128-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
1914 East 75th Street, 1914, (Ward 7) — Congregation of Jehovah’s
Witnesses Cleveland Ohio Cedar, owner — appeal heard on 4/20/2009
(Cal. 09-47) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
East 36th Street, 1385, (Ward 13) — Tyler Industrial Park, LLC., owner, and Factory
Restaurant, Inc. and Jack Miller, tenant — appeal postponed to 6/1/09 on 4/27/2009
(Cal. 09-49) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
East 43rd Street, 1603, (Ward 13) — Chen Wei Zhuo, owner and Mike Giancola, agent —
appeal granted and adopted on 4/20/09 (Cal. 09-38) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
Fairfield Avenue, 1001, (Ward 13) — Gillota Fuel Products Inc., owner — appeal postponed
to 6/8/09 on 4/27/2009 (Cal. 09-44) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
Marquette Street, 1301a.k.a., 1301 Hamilton Avenue, (Ward 13) — Bromo Information
Technology Ltd. and August Garofoli, owner, owner — appeal denied and adopted
on 4/20/09 (Cal. 09-39) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd, 2562, (Ward 6) — Richard Nickerson, owner, and
Delilah Toles, tenant — appeal heard on 4/20/2009 (Cal. 09-42) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
Public Square B-100, 75, (Ward 13) — Northpoint Athletic Club II, Inc., owner, and
Donald Dzina, aka TH & Sons, tenant — appeal postponed to 5/18/09 on 4/20/09
(Cal. 09-28) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
St. Clair Avenue, 7201, (Ward 8) — Don Carter, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 4/20/09 (Cal. 09-23) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
Therman Avenue, 2154, (Ward 13) — Bromo Information Technology Ltd. and
August Garofoli, owner, owner — appeal granted and adopted on 4/20/09
(Cal. 09-41) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
West 130th Street, 4201, (Ward 19) — Jimmy Christian, d.b.a., AAA Auto Doctor, Inc.,
tenant, and Gary and Mary Weinbroer, owners — appeal heard on 4/20/2009
(Cal. 09-40) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708

721

The City Record

32

April 22, 2009

West 25th Street, 2509, (Ward 14) — George Sass, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 4/20/09 (Cal. 09-33) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
West 8th Street, 2491, (Ward 13) — West 11th Street Properties, LLC, owners — appeal
withdrawn on 4/20/09 (Cal. 09-21). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
West 8th Street, 2493, (Ward 13) — West 11th Street Properties, LLC, owners — appeal
withdrawn on 4/20/09 (Cal. 09-19). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
West 8th Street, 2495, (Ward 13) — West 11th Street Properties, LLC, owners — appeal
withdrawn on 4/20/09 (Cal. 09-20). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
West 8th Street, 2501, (Ward 13) — West 11th Street Properties, LLC, owners — appeal
withdrawn on 4/20/09 (Cal. 09-22). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Carter Road, 1840, (Ward 14) — Scranton-Averell, Inc., owner and their counsel Andrew M.
Fowerbaugh — appeal to be heard on 5/4/2009 (Cal. 09-57). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
Carter Road, 1878, (Ward 14) — Scranton-Averell, Inc., owner and their counsel Andrew M.
Fowerbaugh — appeal to be heard on 5/4/2009 (Cal. 09-58). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
Carter Road, 1898, (Ward 14) — Scranton-Averell, Inc., owner and their counsel Andrew M.
Fowerbaugh — appeal to be heard on 5/4/2009 (Cal. 09-59). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
Carter Road, 1970, (Ward 14) — Carter Peninsula, Inc., owner and their counsel Andrew M.
Fowerbaugh — appeal to be heard on 5/4/2009 (Cal. 09-60). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
Detroit Avenue, 6204, (Ward 17) — Gordon Square Arts District LLC, owner, — appeal to be
heard on 5/4/2009 (Cal. 09-64) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
East 79th Street, 4103, (Ward 2) — Leea Knapik, owner — appeal to be heard on 5/4/2009
(Cal. 09-53) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707
Riverbend, Rear, (Ward 14) — Ontario Stone Corporation, owner and their counsel Nicholas
C. York, — appeal to be heard on 5/4/2009 (Cal. 09-61) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
Riverbend Street, (Ward 17) — Westbank Development Corporation, owner and their counsel
Edward F. Siegal, — appeal to be heard on 5/4/2009 (Cal. 09-62) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
Scranton Avenue, 1800, (Ward 14) — Scranton-Averell, Inc., owner and their counsel Andrew
M. Fowerbaugh — appeal to be heard on 5/4/2009 (Cal. 09-56) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
Terminal Tower, 1140, (Ward 14) — Scranton-Averell, Inc., owner and their counsel Andrew
M. Fowerbaugh — appeal to be heard on 5/4/2009 (Cal. 09-55) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707
West14th Street, University Road, (Ward 13) — University Cuyahoga Inc., owner and their
counsel Robert W. McIntyre, — appeal to be heard on 5/4/2009 (Cal. 09-63) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708

Charter
Amend Codified Ordinances (Section 110 & 110 A) Due to Charter changes —
relating to campaign finance (O 1736-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Implementing Charter amendments regarding testing period for city employees
(R 521-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703

City of Cleveland Bids
Frank Novak Park, Halloran Park Plaza and Spray Basin, Harmody Park
Tennis Courts and Mercedes Cotner Park Parking Lot improvements —
Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties — Division of Research,
Planning and Development — per Ord. 690-07 — bid due May 6, 2009
(advertised 4/22/2009 and 4/29/2009). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711
Labels and re-labeling file folders — Department of Finance — behalf of
Cleveland Municipal Court — per Ord. 1818-08 — bid due May 20, 2009
(advertised 4/22/2009 and 4/29/2009). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711
Tony Brush Park site improvements, Phase II — Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties — Division of Research, Planning and
Development — per Ord. 451-08 — bid due May 6, 2009
(advertised 4/22/2009 and 4/29/2009). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711

City Planning Commission
E. 30th St. & St. Clair Ave., (southeast corner) — Change the Use District —
Residence Office (Ward 13) (O 280-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711
E. 86th St., E. 89th St., & Carnegie Ave. — dedication & easement plat — Service Dept.
(Ward 06)(F 524-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
E. 93rd St., (Euclid Ave. to Chester Ave.) — dedication plat for roadway vacation
& relocation — Service Dept. (Ward 06) (F 525-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
Whiskey Island Dr. — secondary name — Ed Hauser Way — Service Dept.
(Ward 17) (O 279-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

722

April 22, 2009

The City Record

33

Civil Service Commission
Implementing Charter amendments regarding testing period for city employees
(R 521-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703

Cleveland Housing Network
Public Utilities — contract with Cleveland Housing Network for customer service for low
income home owners or rental property owners (O 407-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704

Cleveland Municipal Court
Contracts — criminal and civil filing system (including materials necessary to file and
retrieve cases) (O 392-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 717

Cleveland Public Power
Divisions of Water (WPC) & Utilities Dept. (CPP) — contracts — labor & materials necessary
to refurbish the SCADA and PCCS Systems (O 503-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696

Codified Ordinances
Amend Codified Ordinances (Sections 110 & 110 A) Due to Charter changes — relating to
campaign finance (O 1736-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Amend Sect. 670.15 — Type of firearms carried by commissioned armed security guards
(O 1744-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715
Amend Ord. No. 861-08 and repeal Ord. No. 1873-08 — obstructions within the Harbor and
relating penalty (O 3-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715
Enacting new Section 605.11 — misconduct involving a public transportation system (O 411-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 717
Golf course fees — amend Sect. 133.29 (O 503-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
Text Message while driving — enacting new Sect. 433.09 (O 105-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

Communications
Dow, Council Member TJ — recusal from voting on Ord. No. 507-09 (F 537-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693

Community Development Department
Julia De Burgos Cultural Arts Center — agreement — Cultural Instructional Program (Ward
14) (O 487-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 718
Prime Time Summer Enrichment Program and Youth Leadership Academy — agreement — Esperanza
Inc., (Ward 14) (O 486-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 717
Spanish American Committee — agreement — Foreclosure Prevention Program (Ward 14) (O 488-09) . . . . . . . . . 718

Condolences
Steele, John Gilbert “ Gil “ (R 531-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Congratulations
Carr, Donald — 70th Birthday (R 532-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Congress of United States
Enact a homeowners and bank protection plan (R 509-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700

Contracts
Alltel Communications, Inc. — provide telecommunications connections
between the Public Safety mobile data computers & CRIS devices for
LEADS (O 515-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698
American Sugar Refining, Inc. — develop vacant property at E.65th & Carnegie Ave. —
VPI Loan (O 506-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
Cleveland Municipal Court — criminal and civil filing system (including materials
necessary to file and retrieve cases) (O 392-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 717
Cleveland Youth Summer Employment Program, 2009 — Youth Opportunities
Unlimited (O 311-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
Diving and underwater inspections — Public Utilities (Water Division) (O 157-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704

723

The City Record

34

April 22, 2009

Divisions of Water (WPC) & Utilities Dept. (CPP) — labor & materials necessary to
refurbish the SCADA and PCCS Systems (O 503-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
Economic Development — Alcoa — development agreement with Cuy. Hts., & Independence
(O 507-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699
Public Utilities Dept. — various types of fencing (O 395-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
Public Utilities — Cleveland Housing Network for customer service for low
income home owners or rental property owners (O 407-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
Utilities Dept. — labor & materials needed for application of tree root chemicals
(O 504-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
Public improvement — rehabilitating Ralph J. Perk Plaza (O 514-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698

Economic Development Department
American Sugar Refining, Inc. — contract — develop vacant property at E. 65th &
Carnegie Ave. — VPI Loan (O 506-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
Contract with Alcoa — development agreement with Cuy. Hts., & Independence
(O 507-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699

Fees
Golf course fees — amend Sect. 133.29 (O 503-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713

Finance Department
Alltel Communications, Inc. — contracts — provide telecommunications connections between
the Public Safety mobile data computers & CRIS devices for LEADS (O 515-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698
Apply for and accept Stimulus funding (ARRA) (O 463-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
Adopt an Identity Theft City Policy (O 501-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694
Payment for membership dues to NOACA (O 502-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696

Funds
Public Utilities Dept. — reimbursement funds for Public Square water main break on March
6, 2008 (O 394-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704

Golf Courses
Golf course fees — amend Sect. 133.29 (O 503-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713

Loans
American Sugar Refining, Inc. — contract — develop vacant property at E. 65th &
Carnegie Ave. — VPI Loan (O 506-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697

Liquor Permits
East 62nd St., 1030 — new application (Ward 13) (F 529-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
East 93rd St., 3230 — objection to Liquor Agency Contract (Ward 05) (R 510-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
East 93rd St., 3230 — objection to stock transfer (Ward 05) (R 512-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
East 93rd St., 3230 — Liquor Agency contract (Ward 05) (F 526-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
East 93rd St., 3230 — stock transfer application (Ward 05) (F 527-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
East 185th St., 770 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 11) (R 513-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
Euclid Ave., 18235 — objection to Liquor Agency Contract & transfer of ownership
(Ward 10) (R 484-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 712
Glencoe Ave., 15509 — objection to issuance (Ward 11) (R 523-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703
Glencoe Ave., 15509 — new applicaton (Ward 11) (F 528-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
State Rd., 4716 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 16) (R 485-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 712
Shaw Ave., 12611-15 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 10) (R 511-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
Shaw Ave., 12611-15 — objection to Liquor Agency Contract (Ward 10) (R 519-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
St. Clair Ave., 3980 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 362-09
(Ward 13) (R 520-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703
Scranton Rd., 3101 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1044-08 (Ward 14)
(R 522-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703

Oath of Office
Henderson, Ivan Lemuel — oath of office — Interim Assistant Director, Department of Public
Utilities (F 530-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693

724

April 22, 2009

The City Record

35

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Golf course fees — amend Sect. 133.29 (O 503-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
Property adoption agreement with Little Italy Redevelopment Corp. and
to move & accept gift of statue (O 505-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
Public improvement contract — rehabilitating Ralph J. Perk Plaza
(O 514-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698

Permits
Annual City to City Run — permit — April 19th — Hermes Sports & Events Inc.
(Ward 13 & 14) (O 516-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699
Annual Diversity Center of Northeast Ohio Walk/Run — permit — May 2nd —
Hermes Sports & Events Inc., (Ward 13) (O 517-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699
Hermes Cleveland 10 Miler — permit — April 25th — Hermes Sports & Events Inc.
(Ward 17 & 18)(O 518-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700

Plats
E. 86th St., E. 89th St., & Carnegie Ave. — dedication & easement plat —
City Planning Commission — Service Dept. (Ward 06)(F 524-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
E. 93rd St., (Euclid Ave. to Chester Ave.) — dedication plat for roadway vacation
& relocation — City Planning Commission — Service Dept. (Ward 06)
(F 525-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693

Port Control Department
Amend Ord. No. 861-08 and repeal Ord. No. 1873-08 — obstructions within the Harbor and
relating penalty (O 3-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715
Contracts — professional consultants to perform environmental analytical lab
services (O 183-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

Professional Services
Port Control Department — contracts — perform environmental analytical lab services
(O 183-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716
Public Utilities Department (Water Division) — professional consultants to upgrade internet
and intranet sites (O 272-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704

Public Hearings (Notices)
E. 30th St. & St. Clair Ave., (southeast corner) — Change the Use District —
Residence Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 13) (O 280-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711

Public Improvements
Contract — rehabilitating Ralph J. Perk Plaza (O 514-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698

Recognition
Chisholm, Dr. Jacklyn J. (R 534-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694
Rowley, William W. (R 535-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694
Stewart, Terry (R 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Recusals
Dow, Council Member TJ — recusal from voting on Ord. No. 507-09
(F 537-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
Economic Development — contract with Alcoa — development
agreement with Cuy. Hts. & Independence (O 507-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699

Regional Transit Authority
Enacting new Section 605.11 — misconduct involving a public transportation system
(O 411-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 717

725

The City Record

36

April 22, 2009

Resolution of Support
Enact a homeowners and bank protection plan (R 509-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700
Implementing Charter amendments regarding testing period for city employees
(R 521-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703
State of Ohio — regulation of cell phone use and text messaging while driving
(R 110-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711
Supporting “The RESCUE” rally — April 25th — bring attention to the
plight of the children abducted and forced to fight as soliders in
Central East Africa (R 508-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
State of Ohio — regulation of cell phone use and text messaging while driving
(R 110-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711
Enact a homeowners and bank protection plan (R 509-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700

Safety Department
Alltel Communications, Inc. — contracts — provide telecommunications connections between
the Public Safety mobile data computers & CRIS devices for LEADS (O 515-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698
Amend Sect. 670.15 Codified Ordinances — Type of firearms carried by commissioned armed
security guards (O 1744-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715
State of Ohio — regulation of cell phone use and text messaging while driving (R 110-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711
Text Message while driving — enacting new Sect. 433.09 (O 105-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

Service Department
Annual City to City Run — permit — April 19th — Hermes Sports & Events Inc.
(Ward 13 & 14) (O 516-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699
Annual Diversity Center of Northeast Ohio Walk/Run — permit — May 2nd —
Hermes Sports & Events Inc. (Ward 13) (O 517-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699
Burten, Bell, Carr Development — East 55th and Scovill — May 27, 2009 to June 27, 2009 —
Ward 5 Family Festival (Fourth Annual) (O 482-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 717
E. 86th St., E. 89th St., & Carnegie Ave. — dedication & easement plat — City Planning
Commission (Ward 06)(F 524-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
E. 93rd St., (Euclid Ave. to Chester Ave.) — dedication plat for roadway vacation
& relocation — City Planning Commission (Ward 06) (F 525-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
Hermes Cleveland 10 Miler — permit — April 25th — Hermes Sports & Events Inc.
(Ward 17 & 18)(O 518-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700
Whiskey Island Dr. — secondary name — Ed Hauser Way — City Planning Commission
(Ward 17) (O 279-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

State of Ohio
Regulation of cell phone use and text messaging while driving (R 110-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711

Streets — Name
Whiskey Island Dr. — secondary name — Ed Hauser Way — Service Dept. — City Planning
Commission (Ward 17) (O 279-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

Utilities Department
Cleveland Youth Summer Employment Program, 2009 — contract Youth Opportunities Unlimited
(O 311-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
Contracts — various types of fencing (O 395-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
Contract with Cleveland Housing Network for customer service for low income home owners
or rental property owners (O 407-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
Contract for labor & materials needed for application of tree root chemicals (O 504-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
Diving and underwater inspections — contracts — Public Utilities (Water Division) (O 157-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
Divisions of Water (WPC) & Utilities Dept. (CPP) — contracts — labor & materials necessary
to refurbish the SCADA and PCCS Systems (O 503-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696
Public Utilities (Water Division) — professional consultants to upgrade internet and
intranet sites (O 272-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
Henderson, Ivan Lemuel — oath of office — Interim Assistant Director, Department of Public
Utilities (F 530-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
Public Utilities — reimbursement funds for Public Square water main break on March 6, 2008
(O 394-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704

726

April 22, 2009

The City Record

37

Water Division
Diving and underwater inspections — contracts — Public Utilities (Water Division) (O 157-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
Divisions of Water (WPC) & Utilities Dept. (CPP) — contracts — labor & materials necessary
to refurbish the SCADA and PCCS Systems (O 503-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696
Public Utilities Dept. (Water Division) — professional consultants to upgrade internet
and intranet sites (O 272-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
Public Utilities Dept. — reimbursement funds for Public Square water main break on March
6, 2008 (O 394-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704

Water Pollution Control Division
Divisions of Water (WPC) & Utilities Dept. (CPP) — contracts — labor &
materials necessary to refurbish the SCADA and PCCS Systems
(O 503-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696
Utilities Dept. — contract for labor & materials needed for application of tree root
chemicals (O 504-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697

Wireless Tlecommunications
State of Ohio — regulation of cell phone use and text messaging while driving
(R 110-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711
Text Message while driving — enacting new Sect. 433.09 (O 105-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

Ward 01
Stewart, Terry — recognition (R 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Ward 02
Stewart, Terry — recognition (R 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Ward 03
Chisholm, Dr. Jacklyn J. — recognition (R 534-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694
Rowley, William W. — recognition (R 535-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694
Stewart, Terry — recognition (R 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Ward 04
Father’s Dream Appliances — appreciation (R 536-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694
Stewart, Terry — recognition (R 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Ward 05
American Sugar Refining, Inc. — contract — develop vacant property at E.65th &
Carnegie Ave. — VPI Loan (O 506-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
Burten, Bell, Carr Development — East 55th and Scovill — May 27, 2009 to
June 27, 2009 — Ward 5 Family Festival (Fourth Annual) (O 482-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 717
E. 93rd St., 3230 — objection to Liquor Agency Contract — liquor permits (R 510-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
E. 93rd St., 3230 — objection to stock transfer — liquor permits (R 512-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
E. 93rd St., 3230 — Liquor Agency contract — liquor permits (F 526-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
E. 93rd St., 3230 — stock transfer application — liquor permits (F 527-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
Stewart, Terry — recognition (R 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Ward 06
E. 86th St., E. 89th St., & Carnegie Ave. — dedication & easement plat — City Planning
Commission — Service Dept. (F 524-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
E. 93rd St., (Euclid Ave. to Chester Ave.) — dedication plat for roadway vacation
& relocation — City Planning Commission — Service Dept. (F 525-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
Stewart, Terry — recognition (R 533-09 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703

Ward 07
Dow, Council Member TJ — recusal from voting on Ord. No. 507-09 (F 537-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
Stewart, Terry — recognition (R 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

727

The City Record

38

April 22, 2009

Ward 08
Stewart, Terry — recognition (R 533-09 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Ward 09
Stewart, Terry — recognition (R 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Ward 10
Euclid Ave., 18235 — objection to Liquor Agency Contract & transfer of ownership liquor
permits (R 484-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 712
Shaw Ave., 12611-15 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permits (R 511-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
Shaw Ave., 12611-15 — objection to Liquor Agency Contract — liquor permits (R 519-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
Stewart, Terry — recognition (R 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Ward 11
E. 185th St., 770 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permits (R 513-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
Glencoe Ave., 15509 — objection to issuance — liquor permits (R 523-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703
Glencoe Ave., 15509 — new applicaton — liquor permits (F 528-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
Stewart, Terry — recognition (R 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Ward 12
Economic Development — contract with Alcoa — development agreement with Cuy. Hts.,
& Independence (O 507-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699
Stewart, Terry — recognition (R 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Ward 13
Annual City to City Run — permit — April 19th — Hermes Sports & Events Inc.
(Ward 13 & 14) (O 516-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699
Annual Diversity Center of Northeast Ohio Walk/Run — permit — May 2nd —
Hermes Sports & Events Inc., (O 517-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699
E. 30th St. & St. Clair Ave., (southeast corner) — Change the Use District —
Residence Office — City Planning Commission (O 280-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711
E. 62nd St., 1030 — new application — liquor permits (F 529-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
Supporting “The RESCUE” rally — April 25th — bring attention to the
plight of the children abducted and forced to fight as soldiers in
Central East Africa (R 508-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700
St. Clair Ave., 3980 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership —
repeal Res. 362-09 — liquor permits (R 520-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703
Stewart, Terry — recognition (R 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Ward 14
Annual City to City Run — permit — April 19th — Hermes Sports & Events Inc.
(Ward 13 & 14) (O 516-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699
Julia De Burgos Cultural Arts Center — agreement — Cultural Instructional
Program (O 487-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 718
Prime Time Summer Enrichment Program and Youth Leadership Academy —
agreement — Esperanza Inc., (O 486-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 717
Spanish American Committee — agreement — Foreclosure Prevention Program
(O 488-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 718
Scranton Rd., 3101 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1044-08 —
liquor permits (R 522-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703
Stewart, Terry — recognition (R 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Ward 15
Stewart, Terry — recognition (R 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Ward 16
State Rd., 4716 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 16) (R 485-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 712
Stewart, Terry — recognition (R 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

728

April 22, 2009

The City Record

39

Ward 17
Hermes Cleveland 10 Miler — permit — April 25th — Hermes Sports & Events Inc.
(Ward 17 & 18)(O 518-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700
Stewart, Terry — recognition (R 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694
Whiskey Island Dr. — secondary name — Ed Hauser Way — Service Dept. —
City Planning Commission (O 279-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

Ward 18
Carr, Donald — 70th Birthday — congratulations (R 532-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694
Hermes Cleveland 10 Miler — permit — April 25th — Hermes Sports & Events Inc.
(Ward 17 & 18)(O 518-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700
Steele, John Gilbert “Gil” — condolence (R 531-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694
Stewart, Terry — recognition (R 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Ward 19
Stewart, Terry — recognition (R 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Ward 20
Stewart, Terry — recognition (R 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Ward 21
Stewart, Terry — recognition (R 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Zoning
E. 30th St. & St. Clair Ave., (southeast corner) — Change the Use District —
Residence Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 13) (O 280-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711

729

