The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

November the Twenty-Fifth, Two Thousand and Nine

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Terrell H. Pruitt
Nathaniel K. Wilkes
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Mamie J. Mitchell
TJ Dow
Shari L. Cloud
Kevin Conwell
Eugene R. Miller
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Joe Cimperman
Joseph Santiago
Brian J. Cummins
Kevin J. Kelley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
34
34
37
37
38
38
38
39
40
44
45

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..................................................3877 East 189th Street
44122
Nathaniel K. Wilkes ...........................................8410 Vineyard Avenue
44105
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Shari L. Cloud ......................................................1152 East 98th Street
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Joe Cimperman..............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Joseph Santiago ...................................................3169 West 14th Street
44109
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Andrew Watterson, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker, Interim Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – _________, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNELAND HUMAN RESOURCES – Trudy Hutchinson, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Omayra G. Feliciano, Acting Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James
Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Joe Cimperman.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council
Member ____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair; Laura
M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey, Allan
Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
12B
Judge Emanuella Groves
13A
Judge Michelle D. Earley
12A
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
14B
14C
Judge Anita Laster Mays
Judge Lauren C. Moore
14A
13D
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr.
13B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
Judge Michael John Ryan
12C
15C
Judge Angela R. Stokes
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 2009

Vol. 96

No. 5007

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2009
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2006-2009
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties and Recreation Committee:
Johnson, Chair; Wilkes, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek, Pruitt.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cleveland,
Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Conwell, Mitchell, Reed, Santiago.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Brady, Chair; Pruitt, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Johnson,
Polensek,
Reed,
Santiago,
Wilkes.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Dow, Chair; Keane, Vice Chair;
Cleveland, Cloud, Johnson, Reed,
Wilkes.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland,
Conwell, Kelley, Miller, Mitchell,
Polensek, Westbrook.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Brady,
Cloud, Cummins, Miller, Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee:
Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice Chair;
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Johnson,
Mitchell.

10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Cummins, Miller, Mitchell,
Polensek, Pruitt, Santiago, Zone.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice
Chair; Cummins, Keane, Kelley,
Polensek,
Santiago,
Westbrook,
Wilkes.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chair, Westbrook, Vice Chair, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Reed, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Kelley, Keane, Polensek.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Cloud,
Kelley, Mitchell, Santiago, Sweeney, Wilkes.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Cleveland,
Chair;
Kelley,
Miller,
Sweeney, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, November 23, 2009
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Cloud, Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller, Mitchell,
Polensek, Pruitt, Reed, Santiago, Sweeney, Westbrook, Wilkes and Zone.
Also present were Ken Silliman,
Chief of Staff; Darnell Brown Chief
Operating Officer; Valarie J. McCall,
Chief of Government Affairs; Chris
Warren, Chief of Regional Development; Monyka S. Price, Chief of Education; Maureen Harper, Chief of
Communications; Andrea V. Taylor,
Press Secretary; Andrew Watterson,
Chief of Sustainability; and Directors Triozzi, Dumas, Smith, Wasik,
Carroll, Cox, Rush, Rybka, Nichols,
Fumich,
Griffin,
Brown;
Interim
Directors Withers and Walker; Acting Director Feliciano and Theresa
Stevenson, Legislative Affairs.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Kelley, Chair;
Keane, Vice Chair; Cleveland, Cloud,
Dow, Mitchell, Westbrook.

Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76
prayer was offered by Rev. Ronald
Lee, Pastor of Calvary Congregational Church, 4424 Lee Road, located in Ward 1. Pledge of Allegiance.

2131

MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Brady, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Wilkes.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1738-09.
Re: #52377900006 — C2, C2X, D6
Transfer of Location Application —
Little Italy Wines, Ltd, d.b.a. Little
Italy Wines Ltd, 12414 Mayfield
Road. (Ward 6). Received.
File No. 1739-09.
Re: #7090321 — D1, D2, D3, D3A
Economic Development Transfer to
another taxing District Application —
Priv-Bac, LLC., d.b.a. BAc, 1st Floor,
Basement, and Patio, 2661-69 West
14th Street. (Ward 13). Received.
STATEMENT OF FINAL
ACCEPTANCE
File No. 1740-09.
From Director of Public Service —
Contract No. 68939 with R. W. Clark
Company, Inc. for Emergency Generators Replacement (Various Facilities) Project Improvement for the
Division of Architecture. Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1741-09—Roy Eiland.
Res. No. 1742-09—Marge J. Brown.
Res. No. 1743-09 — Mark Steven
Arensberg.
Res. No. 1744-09—Patrick Fallon.
Res. No. 1745-09 — Theodore (Ted)
Madison.
Res. No. 1746-09—Queenie M. Miller.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1747-09—ABM Industries,
Inc.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1748-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more contracts with Mary
Taylor, Ohio State Auditor, for professional services necessary to per-

4
form an assessment and to express
the opinion of the City regarding the
2009 financial statements, and to complete two statements of Auditing
Standards for the Divisions of Water
and Taxation; and authorizing the
Director of Finance to employ one or
more professional consultants to prepare financial statements and to provide accounting and auditing training.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Mary
Taylor, Ohio State Auditor, for professional services necessary to complete an independent assessment
and to express the opinion of the
City whether the 2009 financial
statements fairly present the financial position of the City and other
things; and to authorize the auditor
to
complete
two
statements
on
Auditing Standards for the Divisions
of Water and Taxation.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to prepare financial statements and
to provide accounting and auditing
training.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Finance
from a list of qualified consultants
available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Finance
for the purpose of compiling a list.
The compensation to be paid for the
services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, and approved and
certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from funds appropriated for
this purpose in budget year 2010,
Request No. 154444.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1709-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more requirement contracts without competitive bidding
with Sprint Nextel Corporation for
personal handheld devices with cellular capabilities, cellular devices

The City Record
with
direct
connect
capabilities,
pager equipment, and accessories,
wireless connection cards, software,
licenses, upgrades with software
and licenses, maintenance, including
replacements, and monthly recurring service, for the Division of
Information Technology and Services, Department of Finance, for a
period not to exceed two options to
renew for additional one year periods, exercisable by the Director of
Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council determines that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Sprint Nextel Corporation. Therefore, the Director of Finance is
authorized to make one or more
written requirement contracts with
Sprint Nextel Corporation under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the
requirements for a period not to
exceed one year with two options to
renew for additional one year periods, exercisable by the Director of
Finance of the necessary items of
personal handheld devices with cellular capabilities, cellular devices
with
direct
connect
capabilities,
pager equipment, and accessories,
wireless connection cards, software,
licenses, upgrades with software
and licenses, maintenance, including
replacements, and monthly recurring service, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis, for the Division of Information Technology and
Services, Department of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 181567)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1710-09.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of LED bulbs,
for the Division of Traffic Engineering, Department of Public Service, for a one year period.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

2132

November 25, 2009
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
a one-year period of the necessary
items of LED bulbs used in traffic
and pedestrian signals, in the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Division of Traffic Engineering, Department of Public Service. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract or contracts shall be paid
from Fund No. 20 SF 528 and shall
be charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 180621)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Public Service may sign all documents that
are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or more
contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 1711-09.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of rock salt,
for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Service, for a period
of one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the

November 25, 2009
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one year of the necessary items of rock salt, in the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Service. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 194402)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Public Service may sign all documents that
are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or more
contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 1712-09.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Cimperman, Brady and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 8 of Ordinance No. 688-08,
passed June 9, 2008, relating to the
rehabilitation of East 30th Street;
and to supplement the ordinance by
adding new Sections 7a and 8b,
relating to cash contributions from
GCRTA and accepting cash donations from public and private entities for this project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 8 of Ordinance No. 688-08, passed June 9, 2008,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 8. That the costs of the
contracts, property acquisition, and
other expenditures authorized shall
be paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance,

The City Record
cash contributions accepted from
GCRTA, cash donations from public
or private entities, the cash match,
and from Fund Nos. 20 SF 380, 20 SF
383, 20 SF 394, 20 SF 500, 20 SF 506,
20 SF 510, 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 52
SF 001, and 54 SF 001, Request No.
175549.
Section 2. That existing Section 8
of Ordinance No. 688-08, passed June
9, 2008, is repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 68808, passed June 9, 2008 is supplemented by adding new Sections 7a
and 7b to read as follows:
Section 7a. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to accept a cash contribution from the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority (“GCRTA”) for infrastructure restoration costs associated with
relocating, rehabilitating or reconstructing utility infrastructure for
the improvement. That the Director
of Public Service is authorized to
enter into agreements with GCRTA
for this purpose.
Section 7b. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to accept cash gifts from public and private entities for the purpose of contributing funds towards rehabilitating East 30th Street from Woodland
Avenue to St. Clair Avenue. The
Director is further authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds accepted under this ordinance
and, upon acceptance of the funds
by the Director, they shall be appropriated for the purposes set forth in
this ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 1713-09.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District for the 2010 Solid Waste Disposal Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate amount of $68,267, and any
other funds that may become available during the grant term from
Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District to conduct the 2010 Solid Waste
Disposal Program; that the Director
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
Summary for the grant contained in
the file described below.

2133

5
Section 2. That the Summary for
the grant, File No. 1713-09-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the
public hearing on this legislation, is
approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Health and Human Services,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1714-09.
By Council Members Conwell, Dow
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 625.08 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 708-74,
passed June 24, 1974, relating to
criminal tools.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 625.08 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 708-74, passed June 24,
1974, is amended to read as follows:
Section 625.08 Criminal Tools
(a) No person shall knowingly
possess or have under his control
any device, instrument or article
listed herein, with purpose to do any
unlawful act:
(1) Bump key;
(2) Detached ignition switch;
(3) Jumper wire device;
(4) Key cutter;
(5) Slidehammer;
(6) Any other device, instrument or
article commonly used, designed or
specially adapted for criminal use.
(b) As used in this section:
(1) “Bump key” means a specially-cut key that is designed to defeat
a pin tumbler lock using a technique in which the key is inserted
into the lock and struck or bumped
with a hammer or other object to
cause the pins in the tumbler to separate to allow the lock to open.
(2) “Detached ignition switch”
means any ignition cylinder capable
of completing the electrical circuit
in the ignition system of an automobile.

6
(3) “Jumper wire device” means
any electrical connecting device
designed to complete the electrical
circuit in the ignition of an automobile.
(4) “Key cutter” means any keymaking device capable of cutting or
punching out keys.
(5) “Slidehammer” or “slaphammer” means a device with a movable
weighted sleeve on a rod used to
remove automobile locks.
(c) Whoever violates this section
is guilty of possession of criminal
tools, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
Section 2. That existing Section
625.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 708-74, passed June
24, 1974, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1715-09.
By Council Members Johnson, Dow,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 559.13 and 559.14 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
109-56, passed February 11, 1957, relating to the Cultural Gardens to add the
Bruot Gate and Walk to the Shakespeare Garden and to designate the
Croatian Garden.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 559.13 and
559.14 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 109-56, passed February 11, 1957, are amended as follows:
Section 559.13
Shakespeare Garden and Bruot Gate and Walk
(a) Shakespeare Garden. That portion of Rockefeller Parkway lying
east of the upper drive, between
North Blvd and East 98th Street
shall be designated the Shakespeare
Garden.
(b) Bruot Gate and Walk. Beginning at a point in the westerly line
of the upper drive at its point of
intersection with the westerly prolongation of the main axis of the
Shakespeare Garden; thence southerly along the westerly line of the
upper drive 35 feet to a point; thence
westerly by a line which is parallel
with said westerly prolongation of
the main axis of the Shakespeare
Garden and 35.00 feet southerly by
rectangular measurement therefrom,
about 325 feet to the easterly line of
the lower drive; thence northerly
along the easterly line of the lower
drive about 60 feet to the southwesterly corner of the Hungarian

The City Record
Garden; thence easterly along the
southerly line of the Hungarian,
(which southerly line is 25 feet
northerly by rectangular measurement and parallel to the westerly
prolongation of the main axis of the
Shakespeare Garden) 326.30 feet to
an iron pipe in the westerly line of
the upper drive; thence southerly
along the westerly line of the upper
drive 25.00 feet to the place of beginning.
Section 559.14 Croatian Garden
Beginning in the westerly line of
the upper drive at a point located
35.00 feet southerly by rectangular
measurement from its point of intersection with the westerly prolongation of the main axis of the Shakespeare Garden;
thence
southerly
along the westerly line of the upper
drive about 186.8 feet to an iron pipe
in the northeasterly corner of the
Hebrew Garden; thence westerly
along the northerly line of the
Hebrew Garden 271.54 feet to an
iron pipe in the easterly line of the
lower drive; thence northerly along
the easterly line of the lower drive
about 283.3 feet to a point located
60.00 feet southerly by rectangular
measurement from the southerly
line
of
the
Hungarian
Garden;
thence easterly by a line which is
parallel with the southerly line of
the Hungarian Garden and distant
60.00 feet southerly by rectangular
measurement therefrom, (which line
is also 35 feet southerly by rectangular measurement and parallel to
the westerly prolongation of the
main axis of the Shakespeare Garden) about 326 feet to the westerly
line of the upper drive and the place
of beginning.
Section 2. That existing Sections
559.13 and 559.14 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
as amended by Ordinance No. 109-56,
passed February 11, 1957, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Properties and Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1716-09.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
Clean Ohio Assistance Fund grant
from the State of Ohio Department
of Development for environmental
assessment assistance on the proposed redevelopment of the Key Gas
Components facility at 1966 East
66th Street; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more
contracts with Shaker Associates,
LLC, or its designee, to implement
the project.

2134

November 25, 2009
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized
to apply for and accept a Clean Ohio
Assistance Fund grant in an amount
up to $300,000, from the State of Ohio
Department of Development for environmental assessment assistance
on the proposed redevelopment of
the Key Gas Components facility at
1966 East 66th Street, to be used to
implement the project as described
in the executive summary below;
that the Director is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the executive
summary for the grant contained in
the file described below.
Section 2. That the executive summary for the grant, File No. 1716-09A, made a part of this ordinance as
if fully rewritten, as presented to
the Finance Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with Shaker Associates, LLC,
or its designee, to implement the
project.
Section 4. That the contract or
contracts authorized by this ordinance shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 5. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized will be
paid from the fund or subfunds that
are credited the proceeds of the
grant accepted under this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1717-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing supplemental lease-purchase
agreements, hedge agreements and
other agreements relating to the
lease-purchase of the Cleveland Stadium; approving supplemental trust
agreements and the issuance of
refunding certificates of participation; and authorizing and approving
related matters.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 305-96 passed by the Council of
the City on March 8, 1996, and for
the purpose of acquiring by leasepurchase the Cleveland Stadium, the
City signed and delivered a LeasePurchase Agreement dated as of
June 1, 1997 (as amended and sup-

November 25, 2009
plemented, the “Facility Lease”)
between
the
Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County Port Authority (the “Authority”), as lessor, and the City, as
lessee, and approved a Trust Agreement dated as of June 1, 1997 (as
amended
and
supplemented,
the
“Trust Agreement”), between the
Authority and U.S. Bank National
Association, as trustee (the “Trustee”), pursuant to which the Trustee
signed and delivered various series
of Certificates (as defined in the
Trust Agreement), each such series
of Certificates evidencing proportionate interests in Base Rent (as
defined in the Facility Lease) to be
paid by the City pursuant to the
Facility Lease; and
Whereas, under the Trust Agreement, Additional Certificates (as
defined in the Trust Agreement)
may, with the approval of the City,
be issued to pay the cost of refunding outstanding Certificates; and
Whereas, this Council has determined to authorize the issuance of
Additional Certificates (“Refunding
Certificates”) under the Trust Agreement or the conversion of the interest rate on outstanding Certificates
to refund or restructure outstanding
Certificates and corresponding Base
Rent payments, as provided in this
Ordinance; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the refinancing of securities
of the City and providing for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, property, health or safety
in that authorizing the refunding
and restructuring of the outstanding
Certificates and related credit support, hedging arrangements and
other agreements is necessary to
enable the City to respond to market conditions on a timely basis to
obtain debt service savings or to
stabilize interest rates or to minimize risks of increased interest
expense or increased risks, burdens,
or other costs associated with hedging arrangements or credit support
instruments in connection with the
lease-purchase of the Cleveland Stadium, to mitigate burdensome schedules of Certificate Payments and
corresponding Base Rent payments
or to remove, avoid or mitigate burdensome covenants or costs of funding or maintaining reserves; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition
to the words and terms defined in
the Existing Trust Agreement and
Existing Facility Lease (as defined
in this Section), the following words
and terms shall have the following
meanings unless the context or use
clearly indicates another or different meaning or intent:
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby securities purchase
agreement or other credit enhancement, support or liquidity facility
used to enhance or provide for the
security or liquidity of any Certificates or Hedge Agreements.
“Existing Facility Lease” means
the Lease-Purchase Agreement dated
as of June 1, 1997, as supplemented
and amended by the First Supplemental Lease-Purchase Agreement
dated as of September 15, 1999, the

The City Record
Second Supplemental Lease Purchase Agreement dated as of December 1, 2001, the Amended and Restated Third Supplemental Lease-Purchase Agreement dated as of October 1, 2007, and the Fourth Supplemental Lease-Purchase Agreement
dated May 29, 2008, each between
the Authority, as lessor, and the
City, as lessee.
“Existing Ground Lease” means
the Ground Lease dated as of June
1, 1997, as supplemented and amended
by
the
First
Supplemental
Ground Lease dated as of September
15, 1999 and the Second Supplemental Ground Lease dated as of December 1, 2001, each between the City,
as lessor, and the Authority, as
lessee.
“Existing Hedge Agreement” means
the ISDA Master Agreement, as supplemented and amended by the
Schedule, the Confirmation and the
Credit Support Annex, each dated
February 13, 2003 and between the
City and UBS AG.
“Existing Trust Agreement” means
the Trust Agreement dated as of
June 1, 1997, as supplemented and
amended by the First Supplemental
Trust Agreement dated as of September 15, 1999, the Second Supplemental Trust Agreement dated as of
October 1, 2007, and the Third Supplemental Trust Agreement dated
May 29, 2008, each between the
Authority and the Trustee.
“Facility Lease” means the Existing Facility Lease, as to be supplemented and amended from time to
time by a Supplemental Lease.
“Financial Advisor” means any
financial advisory firm or firms
retained by the Director of Finance
of the City, from time to time, pursuant to Section 11 of this Ordinance.
“Ground Lease” means the Existing Ground Lease, as to be supplemented and amended from time to
time by a Supplemental Ground
Lease.
“Hedge Agreement” means the
Existing Hedge Agreement and any
other hedging arrangement undertaken under Section 3 of this Ordinance.
“Original Purchasers” means, with
respect to each series of Refunding
Certificates, the financial institutions identified as such in the Purchase Agreement for that series.
“Outstanding Certificates” means,
as used in this Ordinance, Certificates from time to time outstanding
under the Trust Agreement. On the
date of introduction of this Ordinance, the Outstanding Certificates
(and the respective principal amounts
then currently outstanding) consisted of the following series of Certificates: Series 1999 ($10,625,410.00);
and Series 2007 ($108,390,000.00).
“Purchase Agreement” means, with
respect to a series of Refunding Certificates, the purchase agreement
among the City, the Authority, the
Trustee and the Original Purchasers
for that series or a representative of
those Original Purchasers, authorized under Section 7 of this Ordinance with respect to that series.
“Purchase
Price”
means,
with
respect to a series of Refunding Certificates, the amount specified in the
Purchase Agreement for that series
to be paid by the Original Pur-

2135

7
chasers for the purchase of those
Refunding
Certificates,
provided
that amount shall be not less than
(i) 97% of the amount determined
by adding to the aggregate principal amount of the Refunding Certificates
any
aggregate
original
issue premium and subtracting from
that amount any aggregate original
issue discount and any premium or
other costs of any Credit Support
Instrument purchased from the proceeds of the Refunding Certificates,
plus (ii) any accrued interest on the
Refunding Certificates from their
date to the date of their delivery to
the Original Purchasers.
“Refunded Certificates” means, as
to each series of Refunding Certificates, the Outstanding Certificates
identified in the Supplemental Trust
Agreement as the Certificates to be
refunded with the proceeds of that
series of Refunding Certificates.
"Refunding
Certificates"
means the Certificates authorized by
this Ordinance to be issued under
the Trust Agreement in one or more
series for the purpose of refunding
one or more series of Outstanding
Certificates, or designated maturities (or portions of maturities)
thereof.
“Series 2007 Certificates” means
the Refunding Certificates of Participation, Series 2007 (Cleveland
Stadium Project) originally issued
under the Trust Agreement on October 11, 2007 and converted and
remarketed on May 29, 2008.
“Supplemental Ground Lease” means
each Supplemental Ground Lease,
and any Amended and Restated Supplemental Ground Lease or Amended and Restated Ground Lease between the City and the Authority,
delivered to supplement and amend
the Ground Lease, in connection
with the issuance of one or more
series of Additional Certificates or
the remarketing of any Outstanding
Certificates or the contracting for or
termination or replacement of any
Hedge Agreement or Credit Support
Instrument relating to any Certificates.
“Supplemental Lease” means each
Supplemental Lease-Purchase Agreement, Amended and Restated Supplemental Lease-Purchase Agreement,
or Amended and Restated Lease-Purchase Agreement between the Authority and the City, delivered to supplement and amend the Facility Lease,
in connection with the issuance of
one or more series of Additional Certificates or the remarketing of any
Outstanding Certificates or the contracting for or termination or replacement of any Hedge Agreement
or Credit Support Instrument relating
to any Certificates.
“Supplemental Trust Agreement”
means
each
Supplemental
Trust
Agreement, Amended and Restated
Supplemental Trust Agreement, or
Amended and Restated Trust Agreement between the Authority and the
Trustee, delivered to supplement
and amend the Trust Agreement, to
provide for the security and terms
of one or more series of Additional
Certificates or the remarketing of
any Outstanding Certificates or the
contracting for or termination or
replacement of any Hedge Agreement or Credit Support Instrument
relating to any Certificates.

8
“Trust
Agreement”
means
the
Existing Trust Agreement, as to be
supplemented and amended from
time to time by a Supplemental
Trust Agreement.
“Trustee” means the bank or trust
company at the time serving as
Trustee under the Trust Agreement,
currently U.S. Bank National Association.
Section 2. Determinations by Council. This Council finds and determines as follows:
(a) Public Purpose. The acquisition, financing and refinancing by
the City of the Cleveland Stadium
pursuant to the Ground Lease, the
Facility Lease and the Trust Agreement and the use of the Cleveland
Stadium as a source of public relaxation and entertainment served and
serves a proper public municipal
purpose.
(b) Supplemental Ground Lease,
Supplemental Lease, Supplemental
Trust Agreement and Refunding
Certificates. It is necessary, proper
and in the best interest of the City
to authorize one or more Supplemental Ground Leases, Supplemental Leases and Purchase Agreements and approve one or more Supplemental Trust Agreements and the
issuance of Refunding Certificates
in one or more series for the purpose of refunding (i) one or more
series of the Outstanding Certificates or designated maturities (or
portions of maturities) thereof, to
obtain aggregate net present value
savings in Certificate Payments and
corresponding Base Rent payments
of not less than three percent (3%),
(ii) one or more series of Outstanding Certificates, or designated maturities (or portions of maturities)
thereof, that are short-term or variable-rate obligations and that the
Director of Finance has determined,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, are subjecting
the City to Base Rent payments the
interest components of which include undesirably high rates of
interest or undesirable fluctuations
in rates of interest, or are the subject of hedging arrangements or
credit support instruments that are
subjecting the City to increased
risks, burdens, or costs, and that
those effects can economically be
avoided or mitigated through refinancing, or (iii) one or more series
of Outstanding Certificates, or designated maturities (or portions of
maturities) thereof, that the Director of Finance has determined,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, are subjecting
the City to burdensome schedules of
Certificate
Payments
and
corresponding Base Rent payments or
burdensome covenants or costs of
funding or maintaining required
reserves, and that those burdens or
costs can be mitigated, removed or
avoided through refinancing
Separate series of Refunding Certificates may be issued at the same
or
different
times.
A
Purchase
Agreement, Supplemental Lease and
Supplemental Trust Agreement shall
be delivered for each series and may
be delivered for multiple series. A
Supplemental Ground Lease shall be
delivered for any series of Refunding Certificates with a final maturity later than the final maturity of
the then Outstanding Certificates.

The City Record
This Council finds and determines
that the issuance of the Refunding
Certificates and signing and delivery of Supplemental Ground Leases,
Supplemental Leases and Purchase
Agreements and approval of Supplemental Trust Agreements in connection with such issuance for the
purpose provided in this Ordinance
serves a proper, public, municipal
purpose by reducing or stabilizing
or minimizing risks of increasing
the costs to the City of the leasepurchase of the Cleveland Stadium
which is a source of public relaxation and entertainment for the people of the City of Cleveland.
(c) Leased Premises. The Council
of the City found and determined at
the time of the authorization of the
Existing Facility Lease and approval of the Existing Trust Agreement and the Outstanding Certificates, and hereby reaffirms, that the
Leased Premises are essential to the
proper, efficient and economic operation of the City.
Section 3. Hedging Arrangements.
This Council finds that by engaging
in interest rate hedging arrangements with respect to the Facility
Lease and Certificates the City may
reduce its financing costs by optimizing the relative amounts of fixed
and variable rate obligations, or
minimizing the risk of variations in
its financing costs or minimizing
any risks, burdens, or costs associated with existing hedging arrangements, or obtaining savings by confirming rates of interest on Certificates in advance of their issuance.
To permit the City to have the flexibility to undertake with respect to
the Facility Lease and Certificates
interest rate swap, swaption, rate
cap, rate collar and other hedging
transactions, from time to time, and
to
establish
the
procedures
for
approving those transactions, this
Council authorizes the signing and
delivery of one or more instruments,
including amendments or supplements to or replacement of, through
assignment, transfer or novation,
the Existing Hedge Agreement or
other
then
existing
instruments
(each, a “Hedge Agreement”), and
any related agreements necessary
for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by each Hedge
Agreement. Those instruments may
be in the form of a master agreement of the International Swaps and
Derivatives Association, Inc., as supplemented and amended by a confirmation, schedule and credit support annex, as further amended to
conform to laws applicable to the
City and to contain terms recommended by a Financial Advisor as
in the City’s best interests, and as
approved by the Director of Law.
Those instruments may vary from
the terms of any existing Hedge
Agreements. The authorizations in
this Section are supplemental to and
not in derogation of any authority
provided by any other ordinance of
this Council concerning hedging
arrangements.
The City’s obligations under any
Hedge Agreement shall be subject
to appropriation and certification as
provided in the Facility Lease.
Those payments may be secured by
the Facility Lease, to the extent permitted by the Trust Agreement, all

2136

November 25, 2009
as determined by the Director of
Finance and set forth in the Hedge
Agreement. The obligation of the
City to make payments under any
Hedge Agreement does not and
shall not represent or constitute a
general
obligation,
debt,
bonded
indebtedness or a pledge of the faith
and credit of the City or the State
of Ohio. Nothing gives any party to
any Hedge Agreement the right to
have excises, ad valorem or other
taxes levied by the City or the State
of Ohio for the payment of any
amounts due under any Hedge
Agreement.
Upon the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that it is to the financial advantage of the City and in the City’s
best
interests
that
a
hedging
arrangement be undertaken by the
City with respect to the Facility
Lease or any Outstanding Certificates, the Director of Finance may
authorize one or more interest rate
hedge transactions in accordance
with the applicable Hedge Agreement; provided that (a) the counterparty shall be rated at the time
of signing the Hedge Agreement not
lower than A or its equivalent by at
least one rating agency or its obligations under the Hedge Agreement
shall be guaranteed or insured by
an entity rated at the time of signing the Hedge Agreement not lower
than A or its equivalent by at least
one rating agency, and (b) the term
of each hedge transaction shall not
exceed the final maturity of the Certificates to which the hedge relates.
The Director of Finance shall
negotiate the terms of each Hedge
Agreement with a counterparty satisfying the credit criteria in this
Ordinance. The City shall receive a
written opinion of a Financial Advisor that the payments made or to be
made by the counterparty to the
City, or by the City to the counterparty, shall be fair value for the
Hedge
Agreement,
considering,
among other things, the credit of
the counterparty and the terms and
conditions of the Hedge Agreement.
The Director of Finance shall determine the terms and conditions of the
Hedge Agreement, including without limitation, the rates to be paid
by the counterparty to the City and
by the City to the counterparty
under the Hedge Agreement, the
time or times and procedures for the
exercise by the counterparty or the
City, as the case may be, of any
option under the Hedge Agreement,
and whether the obligations of the
City under the Hedge Agreement
shall be secured by a Credit Support
Instrument and, if so, the terms and
conditions of such Credit Support
Instrument. The approval of each
interest rate hedge transaction by
the Director of Finance shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing
and
delivery
of
the
applicable
Hedge Agreement by the Director of
Finance. The Director of Finance is
further authorized to terminate any
Hedge Agreements or any Credit
Support
Instrument
securing
a
Hedge Agreement if the Director of
Finance determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that the City’s best interests
will be served by such termination.

November 25, 2009
Any payments owed by the City
upon termination of a Hedge Agreement may be paid from the proceeds
of Refunding Certificates or from
Fund Nos. 67 SF 600 and 01 SF 001
or from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for that purpose, as determined by the Director of Finance.
In the event the Director of
Finance determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that it is necessary to supplement or amend the Facility Lease or
the Trust Agreement in connection
with any Hedge Agreement or termination of any Hedge Agreement,
the Mayor and the Director of
Finance are authorized to sign and
deliver a Supplemental Lease and to
signify approval of the Supplemental Trust Agreement, approved as to
form by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Credit Support Instruments. The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract from time to
time for one or more Credit Support
Instruments for any series of Outstanding Certificates or any Hedge
Agreement if the Director determines, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, that the
Credit Support Instruments will result in savings to the City, will stabilize interest rates or minimize the
risk of increased interest expense
on or increased risks, burdens, or
other costs associated with hedging
arrangements or reserve requirements relating to those Certificates.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized to agree to the amendment, replacement, assignment or
termination of any such contract if
the Director of Finance determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that the City’s
best interests will be served by such
amendment,
replacement,
assignment or termination. In the event
the Director of Finance determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that it is necessary to supplement or amend the
Ground Lease, Facility Lease or the
Trust Agreement in order to permit
the use of or to amend, replace,
assign or terminate a Credit Support
Instrument,
the
Mayor
and
the
Director of Finance are authorized
to sign and deliver a Supplemental
Ground Lease or a Supplemental
Lease or both and to signify approval of the Supplemental Trust
Agreement, approved as to form by
the Director of Law. The cost of
obtaining, amending, replacing, assigning or terminating each Credit
Support Instrument, except to the
extent paid by the Original Purchasers in accordance with the Purchase Agreement or the remarketing
agent in accordance with a remarketing agreement, shall be paid
from the proceeds of Refunding Certificates or the proceeds of remarketing or from Fund Nos. 67 SF 600
and 01 SF 001 or from other money
lawfully available and appropriated
or to be appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. Refunding of Certificates;
Escrow
Agreements.
The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, one or more
escrow agreements between the City
and the Trustee, as escrow trustee,

The City Record
providing for, among other matters:
the
investment
and
holding
in
escrow of the proceeds of Refunding
Certificates to be applied to the
refunding of Refunded Certificates;
the
application
of
the
moneys
derived from those investments to
the payment of the Certificate Payments on Refunded Certificates, and
the irrevocable call for redemption
of Refunded Certificates to be called
for redemption prior to maturity.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to each
escrow agreement from proceeds of
Refunding Certificates to the extent
available and then from Fund Nos.
67 SF 600 and 01 SF 001 or from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose, as determined by
the Director of Finance. Provision
shall be made in each escrow agreement to give the Trustee any written notice of redemption required
under the Trust Agreement. The
Director of Finance and other appropriate City officials shall sign all
documents
and
take
all
other
actions necessary or appropriate on
the part of the City to effect each
such refunding in accordance with
the Trust Agreement and to cause
the Refunded Certificates to be
deemed paid and discharged, including without limitation, the retention
of an independent public accounting
firm to verify the mathematical
accuracy of the calculations relating
to the escrow. Upon the issuance
and delivery of a series of Refunding Certificates, the Trustee and the
City are authorized to disburse from
the Funds established and maintained under the Trust Agreement
such amounts of moneys as are in
excess of the balances required by
the Trust Agreement to then be
maintained in those Funds. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
give written notice to the Trustee of
the call for redemption of the
Refunded Certificates on the earliest redemption date following the
issuance of the Refunding Certificates, pursuant to the Trust Agreement and the applicable escrow
agreement.
Section 6. Determination of Base
Rent and Terms of Refunding Certificates; Application of Proceeds.
(a) Principal Components and
Term. Upon the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that it is in furtherance of one
or more of the purposes set forth in
Section 2(b) of this Ordinance that
one or more series of Refunding Certificates be issued to refund Outstanding Certificates, the Director of
Finance is authorized to negotiate
and provide for the terms of the
Refunding Certificates and the Base
Rent, as amended pursuant to a Supplemental Lease, including the final
Lease Term, which shall end not
later than the final maturity of the
Outstanding Certificates, and the
annual
and
aggregate
principal
components of Base Rent. The principal amount of each series of
Refunding Certificates and the corresponding principal component of
Base Rent is to be the amount set
forth in the Purchase Agreement for

2137

9
that series and shall be the amount
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance,
based
on
the
written
advice of a Financial Advisor, to be
necessary (i) to pay the costs of
refunding the Refunded Certificates,
(ii) to fund any reserves required
under the Trust Agreement, (iii) to
pay costs of any Credit Support
Instruments, (iv) to pay identified
amounts owed under Hedge Agreements, and (v) to pay costs of issuing the Refunding Certificates. The
Refunding
Certificates
of
each
series shall mature on the dates and
in the respective principal amounts
set forth in the Purchase Agreement
for that series, consistent with this
Ordinance and the Trust Agreement.
(b) Interest. The Refunding Certificates may be issued as obligations bearing interest at fixed or
variable interest rates, based on the
determination of the Director of
Finance as to the financial advantage to, and best interests of, the
City, as specified in the Purchase
Agreement.
If
the
Director
of
Finance so determines, then the
method and procedure by which the
variable rate of interest to be borne
by the Refunding Certificates shall
be determined as provided in the
applicable
Supplemental
Trust
Agreement, whether by reference to
a market index, by a remarketing
agent or otherwise; provided that no
Refunding Certificates shall bear
interest at a rate in excess of twenty-five
percent
(25%)
per
year
(including any Refunding Certificate
held by a provider of a Credit Support Instrument). The Director of
Finance may determine that the
terms of a variable rate series of
Refunding Certificates may or may
not permit the holders to tender their
variable rate Refunding Certificates
for purchase by the City. If the
Director of Finance designates any
series of Refunding Certificates as
variable rate Certificates, and if the
holders of that series of Refunding
Certificates are to be entitled to tender those Certificates for purchase,
then the Director of Finance shall
also
designate
in
the
Purchase
Agreement for those variable rate
Certificates (and may designate others, from time to time, in substitution therefor), the tender agent or
agents and the remarketing agent or
agents, which designations shall be
based on the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that the parties so designated
possess the requisite resources and
experience to provide the services
required of them and that the terms
on which the designated parties have
agreed to provide such services are
fair and commercially reasonable.
(c) Optional and Mandatory Redemption. The Refunding Certificates of each series, and the corresponding principal component of
Base Rent, may be subject to redemption prior to maturity at the
option of the City, if and to the
extent set forth in the Purchase
Agreement for that series. Any Refunding Certificates so determined
to be subject to optional redemption
and maturing by their stated terms
after the earliest optional redemption date shall be subject to redemption at the option of the City on or

10
after the earliest optional redemption date in whole or in part on any
date at the redemption prices set
forth in the Purchase Agreement
and in accordance with the applicable Supplemental Trust Agreement.
The Refunding Certificates designated in the Purchase Agreement as
term Certificates subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption shall
be redeemed prior to maturity on
each mandatory redemption date
designated in the Purchase Agreement in the aggregate amount of
the sinking fund installment to be
paid on such mandatory redemption
date, all as provided in the Purchase
Agreement and in accordance with
the Supplemental Trust Agreement.
(d) Credit Support and Other Instruments. The Director of Finance,
regardless of whether a series of
Refunding Certificates bears interest at variable or fixed rates, is
authorized to contract for one or
more Credit Support Instruments, if
the Director of Finance determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that the Credit
Support Instruments will result in a
savings in the cost of the financing
to the City or will stabilize interest
rates
or
minimize
the
risk
of
increased interest expense in connection with the Facility Lease and
the Certificates. The costs of such
Credit Support Instruments may be
paid from proceeds of Refunding
Certificates or from Fund Nos. 67 SF
600 and 01 SF 001 or from other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose, as determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements in connection with the
delivery of the Refunding Certificates, and from time to time thereafter so long as the Refunding Certificates
are
outstanding,
with
providers of Credit Support Instruments, tender agents (which may be
the Trustee), remarketing agents
(which may be any of the Original
Purchasers) and others as may be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be necessary or appropriate to provide for the method of
determining the variable interest
rates, permitting holders the right
of tender and providing for payment
of the purchase price of, or Certificate Payments on, the variable rate
Refunding Certificates.
(e) Base Rent. The City acknowledges that the aggregate principal
amount of Outstanding Certificates
shall be based on the aggregate
principal component of Base Rent
under the Facility Lease and that
the interest on the Certificates shall
be based on the interest components
of Base Rent. The Base Rent to be
payable under and in accordance
with the Facility Lease during any
Lease Term shall be an amount sufficient to cover the amount of Certificate Payments on the Outstanding Certificates that are due and
payable during that Lease Term,
and such Base Rent shall be specified or determined in an exhibit to
the Facility Lease; provided, however, that the City's payment of Base
Rent and Additional Rent is Subject
to Appropriation and Certification
as provided in the Facility Lease
and nothing in the Facility Lease,

The City Record
the Certificates, the Trust Agreement, or any Hedge Agreement constitutes or shall constitute a pledge
by the City, or an obligation of the
City, of any taxes or other moneys
to the payments due thereunder.
(f) Primary Offering Disclosure.
If, in the judgment of the Director
of Finance after consultation with
the Original Purchasers, a disclosure document is appropriate relating to the initial offering of one or
more series of Refunding Certificates, the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the City and in that officer's official capacity, is authorized
to (i) cooperate with the Original
Purchasers in the preparation of,
and the making of modifications,
completions or changes of or supplements to, such a disclosure document, (ii) determine, and certify or
otherwise represent when the disclosure document is to be deemed
final or is final, (iii) authorize the
use and distribution of that disclosure document and any supplements
thereto in connection with the initial offering of the applicable series
of Refunding Certificates, and (iv)
sign certificates, statements or other
documents in connection with the
finality, accuracy and completeness
of that disclosure document. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
contract for services for the production and distribution of any disclosure statements, including by printed and electronic means.
(g) Continuing Disclosure. If and
to the extent required by Rule 15c212 promulgated by the Securities
and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
or by a Purchase Agreement in connection with the sale of one or more
series of Refunding Certificates or
by a remarketing agreement in connection with remarketed Certificates, the City shall enter into continuing
disclosure
agreements,
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, between the
City and the Trustee, with terms not
inconsistent with this Ordinance and
as may be approved by the officers
signing those agreements on behalf
of the City, all of which shall be
conclusively evidenced by that signing. In each such continuing disclosure agreement, the City shall agree
to provide, or cause to be provided,
financial information and operating
data,
financial
statements
and
notices in such manner as may be
required for purposes of that Rule.
The Director of Finance is authorized to sign and deliver each continuing disclosure agreement and
any related agreements, certificates
and other instruments, and to deliver such information, as may be necessary or appropriate to comply
with the requirements of the Rule.
The City understands and agrees
that those commitments are intended to be for the benefit of the holders from time to time of the applicable series of Refunding Certificates, including holders of bookentry interests in those Certificates.
(h) Application for Ratings. If, in
the judgment of the Director of
Finance, the filing of applications
for one or more ratings on Refunding Certificates by one or more
nationally recognized rating agencies is necessary or desirable for
marketing purposes, the Director of

2138

November 25, 2009
Finance is authorized to prepare
and submit those applications, and
to provide information as may be
required in support of those applications for the purpose. The cost of
obtaining each such rating, except
to the extent paid by the Original
Purchasers in accordance with the
Purchase Agreement, shall be paid
from the proceeds of the Refunding
Certificates to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
(i) Application of Proceeds; Costs
of Issuance. The proceeds from the
sale of the Refunding Certificates
shall be deposited and applied as
provided in the Supplemental Indenture and for the purposes stated in
this Ordinance and are appropriated
for those purposes. Costs of issuing
the Refunding Certificates that are
not paid from those proceeds may be
paid from Fund Nos. 67 SF 600 and
01 SF 001 or from other money lawfully available and appropriated or
to be appropriated for that purpose,
as determined by the Director of
Finance.
Section 7. Sale of the Refunding
Certificates; Purchase Agreements.
The Director of Finance shall sign
and deliver Purchase Agreements for
Refunding Certificates setting forth
the conditions for delivery of the
Refunding Certificates that are consistent with this Ordinance and the
Trust Agreement and that are determined by the Director of Finance,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, to be customary
for lease certificates of participation
issued
by
governmental
entities,
including, without limitation, representations as to the accuracy and
completeness of information contained in the disclosure document
described in Section 6 of this Ordinance. In the event the Refunding
Certificates are issued in more than
one series sold at different times, a
separate Purchase Agreement shall
be signed and delivered for each separately delivered series. The Purchase Agreement shall provide for
the sale of the applicable series of
Refunding Certificates to the Original Purchasers selected by the Director of Finance and identified in the
Purchase Agreement, based on an
evaluation of the qualifications of
firms that have proposed to underwrite the Refunding Certificates.
Each Purchase Agreement shall
set forth the following, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, consistent with this Ordinance
and the Trust Agreement:
(a) the aggregate principal amount
of Refunding Certificates issued;
(b) the Purchase Price for the Refunding Certificates;
(c) whether any Refunding Certificates are to be subject to optional redemption prior to maturity, and,
if so, the earliest optional redemption
date for those Refunding Certificates
subject to prior redemption, which
shall be not later than ten years from
the first interest payment date of the
applicable series, and the applicable
redemption price, which shall be not
greater than 102% of the principal
amount redeemed;
(d) the dates on which principal
of the Refunding Certificates is to
be paid, which shall be not later

November 25, 2009
than thirty-five (35) years from
their respective dates of issuance,
with an identification of whether
the payment is due by stated maturity or by mandatory sinking fund
redemption of Refunding Certificates of a particular maturity;
(e) the interest rates to be borne
by Refunding Certificates bearing
interest at a fixed rate, the weighted
average of which shall not exceed
eight percent (8%) as to Refunding
Certificates of any series, and the
method by which the interest rate is
to be determined for Refunding Certificates bearing interest at variable
rates, consistent with Section 6;
(f) the particular Outstanding
Certificates or portions thereof to be
Refunded Certificates;
(g) the title and series designation for the Refunding Certificates;
(h) the amount, if any, of proceeds
of the sale of the Refunding Certificates to be deposited in the Reserve
Account in order to cause the balance
therein to equal the Reserve Requirement, if and to the extent required
by the applicable Supplemental Trust
Agreement, and any determination as
to whether there shall be a special
reserve fund for the Refunding Certificates of any series, separate from
the common Reserve Account, or a
surety or insurance policy, bank letter or line of credit, or other form of
credit or liquidity facility enhancing
the security for Refunding Certificates of that series in lieu of a funded reserve fund;
(i) whether any Refunding Certificates are to be secured by or
payable
from
a
Credit
Support
Instrument.
It is determined that the terms of
the Refunding Certificates and the
corresponding terms of Base Rent as
so determined within the limitations
set forth in this Ordinance and as
so specified and set forth in the Purchase Agreement will be in the best
interest of the City and consistent
with all legal requirements.
Section 8. Remarketing. In the
event that the Director of Finance
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
it is advantageous to the City to convert the interest on any Outstanding
Certificates bearing interest at variable rates to fixed interest rates for
a period of time or to maturity or to
convert to a different variable rate
period or mode, or to terminate or
take other actions with respect to
any existing Credit Support Instrument that will require a tender and
remarketing of any Outstanding Certificates under the Trust Agreement
(such conversion or other actions
and the tender and remarketing
being collectively referred to in this
Section as “remarketing”), the City
shall undertake the remarketing of
those Certificates in accordance with
the Trust Agreement. In connection
with any remarketing of Certificates,
the Director of Finance is authorized
to obtain one or more Credit Support
Instruments if the Director determines, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, that the Credit Support Instrument will facilitate
the remarketing of the Certificates.
In the event the Director of Finance
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
it is necessary in connection with the

The City Record
remarketing to supplement or amend
the Facility Lease, the Ground Lease
or the Trust Agreement in order to
address current market conditions or
to permit the use of or to terminate
a Credit Support Instrument or to
otherwise obtain financing arrangements advantageous to the City, the
Mayor and the Director of Finance
are authorized to sign and deliver a
Supplemental Lease and a Supplemental Ground Lease and to signify
approval of the Supplemental Trust
Agreement, approved as to form by
the Director of Law. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to satisfy any special reserve fund requirement for the series of Certificates to
be remarketed, by the deposit of a
Credit Support Instrument in lieu of
cash, as permitted and more specifically provided in the Trust Agreement, and to apply cash released
from such special reserve fund to the
payment of costs of remarketing. To
the extent the costs of remarketing
are not paid from any cash released
from such special reserve fund, those
costs may be paid, as determined by
the Director of Finance, from the proceeds of remarketing or from Fund
Nos. 67 SF 600 and 01 SF 001 or from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose. The Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare one
or more disclosure documents in connection with any remarketing under
the same terms and conditions as set
forth in Section 6 of this Ordinance
with respect to the issuance of
Refunding Certificates. The Director
of Finance or any other officer of the
City having responsibility for the
remarketing of Certificates is authorized to take such actions or cause
to be taken such actions as are necessary to obtain and maintain the
desired tax status of any Outstanding Certificates, and the covenants
and authorizations in Section 10 of
this Ordinance shall apply to any
converted Certificates. The Director
of Finance and other City officials
are authorized to sign and deliver
such instruments, certificates and
documents as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions authorized by this Section. The
Director of Finance, the Director of
Law and other City officials, as
appropriate, are authorized to make
the
necessary
arrangements
on
behalf of the City to establish the
date, location, procedure and conditions for the remarketing of Certificates and to take all actions necessary to effect the remarketing of Certificates under the terms of this Ordinance, the Facility Lease and the
Trust Agreement. The Clerk of Council or other appropriate official of the
City shall furnish the Trustee a true
transcript of proceedings certified by
the Clerk or other official, of all proceedings had with reference to the
remarketing of Certificates along
with such information for the records
as is necessary to determine the
validity of the remarketing.
Section 9. Authorization of Supplemental Ground Leases, Supplemental Leases and Supplemental
Trust Agreements; Additional Documents. In connection with the issuance of any series of Refunding Certificates, the Mayor and the Director of Finance are authorized, in the

2139

11
name and on behalf of the City, to
sign and deliver one or more Supplemental Leases and, if necessary
or appropriate in connection with
that issuance, one or more Supplemental Ground Leases, and to signify approval of one or more Supplemental Trust Agreements, approved as to form by the Director of
Law, and not inconsistent with this
Ordinance and the Purchase Agreement. The determination by those
officers that a Supplemental Lease,
Supplemental Ground Lease or Supplemental Trust Agreement is not
inconsistent with this Ordinance
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing and delivery of that
Supplemental Lease, Supplemental
Ground Lease or Supplemental Trust
Agreement by those officers. Subject
to the Facility Lease as theretofore
amended, any Supplemental Lease
may contain amendments to the
Facility
Lease,
as
theretofore
amended, and, subject to the Trust
Agreement as theretofore amended,
any Supplemental Trust Agreement
may contain amendments to the
Trust Agreement, as theretofore
amended, to permit the City increased flexibility for the use of
financial or credit structures and
techniques determined by the Director of Finance, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, to be
in the best interests of the City.
The
Mayor,
the
Director
of
Finance, the Clerk, the Director of
Law and other City officials are
authorized to sign and deliver such
instruments, certificates and documents as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions
authorized by this Ordinance, the
Purchase Agreements, the Supplemental Ground Leases, the Supplemental Leases, the Supplemental
Trust
Agreements,
the
Ground
Lease, the Facility Lease, the Trust
Agreement, the escrow agreements
and the Hedge Agreements.
The
Mayor,
the
Director
of
Finance, the Director of Law and
other City officials, as appropriate,
are authorized to make the necessary arrangements on behalf of the
City to establish the date, location,
procedure and conditions for the
delivery of each series of Refunding
Certificates to the Original Purchasers and to take all actions necessary to effect due signing, authentication and delivery of each series
of Refunding Certificates under the
terms of this Ordinance, the Supplemental Leases, the Supplemental
Ground Leases, the Supplemental
Trust Agreements, the Purchase
Agreements and the Trust Agreement. The Clerk of Council or other
appropriate official of the City shall
furnish the Original Purchasers a
true transcript of proceedings certified by the Clerk or other official,
of all proceedings had with reference to the issuance of the Refunding Certificates along with such
information for the records as is
necessary to determine the regularity and validity of the issuance of
the Refunding Certificates.
Section 10. Tax Covenants. Upon
the determination of the Director of
Finance,
based
on
the
written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
it is to the financial advantage of
the City and in the City’s best inter-

12
ests that all or a portion of a series
of Refunding Certificates or remarketed
Certificates
be
issued
or
remarketed as obligations the interest on which is excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, the Director of Finance, as
the fiscal officer, or any other officer having responsibility for the
issuance of Refunding Certificates
or remarketing of Certificates, is,
alone or in conjunction with any of
the foregoing or with any other officer or employee of the City, authorized to cooperate with the Original
Purchasers or remarketing agents
and the Trustee by making, on
behalf of the City, such covenants
and representations in the Facility
Lease as are appropriate and necessary so that (a) the Facility Lease
and the Certificates of any series
will not (i) constitute private activity bonds, arbitrage bonds or hedge
bonds under Sections 141, 148 or 149
of the Code or (ii) be treated other
than as obligations to which Section
103(a) of the Code applies, and (b)
the interest components of Base
Rent and interest on the Certificates
will not be treated as an item of tax
preference under Section 57 of the
Code.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
the issuance of Refunding Certificates or remarketing of Certificates
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Facility Lease and the
Certificates as the City is permitted
to or required to make or give under
the federal income tax laws for the
purpose of assuring, enhancing or
protecting favorable tax treatment
or status of the Facility Lease and
the Certificates or the interest components thereof or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose,
reducing
the
burden
or
expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or payments
or penalties, or making payments of
special amounts in lieu of making
computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as rebate, or
obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer,
which action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the intended tax status of
the Facility Lease and the Certificates, and (c) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript for
the Certificates, setting forth the
reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds from the sale of the
Certificates, the facts, circumstances
and estimates on which they are
based, and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax status of
the Facility Lease and the Certificates.
The City hereby covenants it will
take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it
for the interest components of Base
Rent and interest on the Certificates

The City Record
to achieve and maintain the intended treatment and status for federal
income tax purposes and that it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that treatment and status.
Each covenant made pursuant to
this Section with respect to a series
of Certificates is also made with
respect to all issues any portion of
the principal of or interest on which
is paid from proceeds of that series
of Certificates (and, if different, the
original issue and any refunding
issues in a series of refundings), to
the extent such compliance is necessary to assure the tax status of the
Certificates of that series, and the
officers identified above are authorized to take actions with respect to
those issues as they are authorized
in this Section to take with respect
to the Certificates of that series.
Section 11. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more Financial
Advisors, from time to time, to
assist the Director of Finance in
making any of the determinations
required by this Ordinance to be determined by the Director of Finance
or to negotiate any Hedge Agreements. The Director of Finance may
rely on the written advice of any
Financial Advisor so retained. Any
Financial Advisor or consultant employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent
of the underwriters or counterparties and any other party interested
in the transaction.
Section 12. Appointment of Successor Trustee. The Director of
Finance is authorized to appoint a
successor Trustee in the event that
the current Trustee, U.S. Bank,
National Association, shall resign or
be removed, or be dissolved or otherwise become incapable of acting
as Trustee under the Trust Agreement, or in case it shall be taken
under the control of any public officer or officers or of a receiver
appointed by a court, in accordance
with the Trust Agreement.
Section 13. Captions, Headings,
and Section References. The captions and headings in this Ordinance
are solely for convenience of reference and in no way define, limit, or
describe the scope or intent of any
Sections, subsections, paragraphs,
subparagraphs, or clauses hereof.
Reference to a Section means a section of this Ordinance unless otherwise indicated.
Section 14. Interpretation. Any provisions of the Codified Ordinances of
the City which are inconsistent with
the provisions of this Ordinance shall
not apply to the Certificates or matters authorized herein. Northing in
this Ordinance is intended to, and no
provision hereof shall be applied in
any manner as would, impair the
obligation of contract of the City
with respect to any outstanding
bonds, certificates of indebtedness,
other obligations, indentures, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City.
Section 15. Validity. This Council
finds and determines that this Ordinance was passed in compliance
with all applicable provisions of the
City’s Charter and the rules of this
Council.

2140

November 25, 2009
Section 16. Severability. Each section of this Ordinance and each subdivision or paragraph of any section
is hereby declared to be independent, and the finding or holding of
any section or any subdivision or
paragraph of any section to be
invalid or void shall not be deemed
or held to affect the validity of any
other section, subdivision or paragraph of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Compliance with Open
Meeting Requirements. This Council
finds and determines that all formal
actions of this Council and any of
its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this Ordinance
were taken in an open meeting of
this Council or committees, and that
all deliberations of this Council and
any of its committees that resulted
in those formal actions were in
meetings open to the public, all in
compliance with the law.
Section 18. Sunset of Authorization. The authority granted by this
Ordinance shall expire two years
from the effective date of this Ordinance. If a preliminary disclosure
document
with
respect
to
the
issuance of a series of Refunding
Certificates is distributed under the
authority of this Ordinance at any
time within the two-year period following its effective date, then the
authority granted by this Ordinance
shall not expire as to that series of
Refunding Certificates. The Director
of Finance shall notify the Chairman of the Finance Committee and
the Clerk of this Council of the initiation of the issuance of any
Refunding Certificates under the
authority of this Ordinance.
Section
19.
Refinancing.
This
Council finds and determines that
this is an Ordinance providing for
the refinancing of bonds, notes or
other securities of the City within
the meaning of Section 64 of the
City Charter.
Section 20. Emergency. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all the members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise, it shall take effect and
be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1718-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of revenue refunding bonds to refund outstanding revenue bonds of the core
city program for economic and community development in the City and
authorizing related matters.
Whereas, under authority of Sections 13 and 16 of Article VIII of the
Ohio Constitution, Chapter 165 of the
Ohio Revised Code, and Ordinance
No. 1982-02, passed by this Council
on June 10, 2003, the City established the Core City Fund Program
for economic and community development projects in the City, and to
provide funds for the Program the
City issued revenue bonds under the
Trust Indenture described in Section
1; and

November 25, 2009
Whereas, this Council has determined to authorize the issuance by
the City of refunding bonds under
the terms and conditions of this
Ordinance and the Trust Indenture
to refund the Outstanding Bonds
identified in Section 1, or designated portions thereof; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the refinancing of bonds of
the City and providing for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, property, health, or safety in
that authorizing the refunding of
the Outstanding Bonds is necessary
to enable the City to respond to market conditions on a timely basis to
obtain debt service savings or other
advantages as described in Section
2; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition
to the words and terms defined in
the Trust Indenture or elsewhere in
this Ordinance, including its preambles, unless the context or use clearly indicates another or different
meaning or intent:
“Bonds” means the Outstanding
Bonds until provision is made for
their
refunding,
the
Refunding
Bonds when issued, and any Additional Bonds outstanding under the
Trust Indenture.
“Certificate of Award” means the
certificate authorized by Section 3,
to be executed by the Director of
Finance, setting forth and determining those terms or other matters
pertaining to the Refunding Bonds
and their amount, issuance, sale and
delivery as this Ordinance requires
or authorizes to be set forth or
determined in it.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby bond purchase agreement or other credit enhancement,
support or liquidity device used to
enhance the security or liquidity for
the Bonds.
“Financial Advisor” means any
financial advisory firm or firms
retained by the Director of Finance
of the City, from time to time, pursuant to Section 13.
“Net Project Revenues” means
Revenues, if any, remaining and
available to pay debt charges on the
Refunding Bonds after the application by the City of the Revenues to
make grants or loans for additional
economic development projects in
the City.
“Nontax Revenues” means all moneys of the City which are not moneys raised by taxation, to the extent
available for the purpose of paying
debt charges on the Bonds, including, but not limited to the following:
(a) grants from the United States of
America and the State; (b) payments in lieu of taxes now or hereafter authorized by State statute;
(c) fines and forfeitures which are
deposited in the City’s General
Fund; (d) fees deposited in the
City’s General Fund for services provided and from properly imposed
licenses and permits; (e) investment
earnings
on
the
City’s
General
Fund; (f) investment earnings on
other funds of the City that are
credited to the City’s General Fund;
(g) proceeds from the sale of assets
which are deposited in the City’s

The City Record
General Fund; (h) gifts and donations; and (i) all rental payments
which are deposited in the City’s
General Fund.
“Outstanding Bonds” means the
City’s Taxable Economic and Community Development Revenue Bonds
(Core City Fund) issued and outstanding, from time to time, under
the Trust Indenture, currently consisting of the Series 2004 Bonds
issued on November 10, 2004 in the
original
principal
amount
of
$19,280,000 and the City’s Series 2008
Bonds issued on July 24, 2008 in the
original
principal
amount
of
$28,160,000 to refund the Series 2003
Bonds.
“Proceedings” means, collectively,
this Ordinance, the Certificate of
Award, the Trust Indenture, and
such other proceedings of the City,
including the Refunding Bonds, that
provide collectively for, among other
things, the rights of holders and
beneficial owners of the Refunding
Bonds.
“Program Funds” means Fund
Nos. 10 SF 504, 10 SF 540, 10 SF 541,
10 SF 542, 10 SF 544, 10 SF 545 and
10 SF 546.
“Refunding Bonds” means the Refunding Bonds authorized by this
Ordinance.
“Revenues” means the rentals, revenues, payments, repayments, income, charges, and moneys derived
or to be derived from the use, lease,
sublease, rental, sale, including installment sale or conditional sale, or
other disposition of individual Projects, or derived or to be derived
from a loan made for a Project.
“Supplemental Trust Indenture”
means an agreement between the
City and the Trustee supplemental
to the Trust Indenture.
“Trust Indenture” means the Trust
Indenture dated as of December 15,
2003, as supplemented and amended
by the First Supplemental Trust
Indenture dated as of November 1,
2004 and the Second Supplemental
Trust Indenture dated as of July 1,
2008, each between the City and the
Trustee, and as it may be further
supplemented and amended from
time to time or as it may be amended and restated as authorized herein.
“Trustee” means the bank or trust
company at the time serving as
Trustee under the Trust Indenture,
presently U.S. Bank National Association.
Unless otherwise indicated, any
reference to a Section is a reference
to a Section of this Ordinance.
Section 2. Authorized Principal
Amount and Purpose. This Council
finds and determines that it is necessary and proper and in the best
interests of the City to authorize the
issuance of Refunding Bonds as
Additional Bonds under the Trust
Indenture, subject to satisfaction of
the requirements of Section 165.07 of
the Ohio Revised Code, for the purpose of refunding one or more series
of Outstanding Bonds, or designated
portions thereof, to obtain debt service savings or to obtain a more
favorable debt service schedule, or
to eliminate or modify covenants in
agreements
securing
Outstanding
Bonds that are unduly restrictive, or
to eliminate or modify burdensome
reserve requirements, or, in the case

2141

13
of Outstanding Bonds that are variable rate bonds, to stabilize interest
rates
or
to
minimize
risks
of
increased interest expense on those
Bonds, including costs associated
with related Credit Support Instruments. The principal amount of the
Refunding Bonds is to be the
amount set forth in the Certificate
of Award authorized in Section 3
and shall be the amount determined
by the Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, to be necessary (i) to refund the Outstanding Bonds being
refunded, (ii) to fund any deposit to
the Bond Reserve Fund, (iii) to pay
costs of any Credit Support Instruments, and (iv) to pay costs of issuing the Refunding Bonds and refunding the Outstanding Bonds being refunded. The proceeds from the
sale of the Refunding Bonds shall
be deposited and applied as provided in the Supplemental Trust Indenture for the Refunding Bonds and
for the purposes stated in this Ordinance, and those proceeds are appropriated for those purposes.
Section 3. Terms of Refunding
Bonds. The final terms of the Refunding Bonds shall be set forth in
a written certificate to be signed
and delivered by the Director of
Finance upon the sale of the Refunding Bonds upon terms and conditions consistent with this Ordinance and that in her opinion, based
on the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, are in the best interests
of the City (the “Certificate of
Award”).
The
Refunding
Bonds
shall be dated the date of issuance
or such other date as is designated
in the Certificate of Award. The
Refunding Bonds shall mature on
the dates and in the respective principal amounts determined in the
Certificate of Award, provided that
the final maturity date shall be not
later than 30 years from the date of
issuance of the Refunding Bonds.
The Refunding Bonds shall bear
interest from their date at the rate
or rates per year set forth in the
Certificate of Award, or if any
Refunding Bonds bear interest at a
variable rate, at the rate determined
from time to time pursuant to the
method identified in the Certificate
of Award and set forth in the Trust
Indenture, and the Refunding Bonds
shall bear interest at those rates
until the principal amount of the
Refunding Bonds is paid or payment
is provided for. Interest on the
Refunding Bonds shall be payable
on the dates determined or provided
for in the Certificate of Award and
the Trust Indenture. If any Refunding Bonds bear interest at a fixed
rate, that rate shall not exceed eight
percent (8%) per year. If any Refunding Bonds bear interest at a
variable rate or rates, those rates
shall not exceed that set forth
below.
In the event that the Director of
Finance,
based
on
the
written
advice of a Financial Advisor, determines that the City’s best interests
will be served by causing all or a
portion of the Refunding Bonds to
be obligations bearing interest at
variable rates, redeemable by the
City without penalty or premium on
interest adjustment dates, then the
Director of Finance is authorized to

14
so specify in the Certificate of
Award. If the Director of Finance so
determines, then the Director of
Finance shall specify in the Certificate of Award the method and procedure by which the variable rate of
interest to be borne by the variable
rate Refunding Bonds shall be determined, whether by reference to a
market index, by a remarketing
agent or otherwise; provided that
the variable rate Refunding Bonds
shall not bear interest at a rate in
excess of twenty-five percent (25%)
per year (including any Refunding
Bonds held by a provider of a Credit Support Instrument). Holders of
variable rate Refunding Bonds may
be given the right to tender their
variable rate Refunding Bonds for
purchase by the City at the times,
on the terms, and subject to the conditions set forth in the Certificate of
Award and the Trust Indenture. If
the Director of Finance designates
any Refunding Bonds as variable
rate Refunding Bonds, and if the
holders of the variable rate Refunding Bonds are to be entitled to tender the variable rate Refunding
Bonds for purchase, then the Director of Finance shall also designate
in the Certificate of Award for those
variable rate Refunding Bonds the
provider or providers for any Credit Support Instrument, the tender
agent or agents and the remarketing agent or agents, which designations shall be based on the determination of the Director of Finance,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that the parties
so designated possess the requisite
resources and experience to provide
the services required of them and
that the terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide
such services are fair and commercially reasonable. The Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements in connection with the
delivery of the variable rate Refunding Bonds, and from time to time
thereafter so long as the variable
rate Refunding Bonds are outstanding, with providers of Credit Support
Instruments, tender agents (which
may be the Trustee), remarketing
agents, and others as may be determined by the Director of Finance,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders
the right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of the variable rate Refunding
Bonds upon tender for purchase or
redemption, and providing for the
repayment by the City of any
amounts drawn under the Credit
Support Instrument.
The Director of Finance shall further determine and specify in the
Certificate of Award whether any of
the Refunding Bonds are subject to
optional redemption prior to maturity, the earliest date on which redeemable Refunding Bonds shall be
subject to prior redemption, and the
applicable redemption premium for
the redeemable Refunding Bonds.
The Refunding Bonds may be subject to purchase by the City in lieu
of optional redemption if and to the
extent provided in the Certificate of
Award and the Trust Indenture.

The City Record
Section 4. Form; Exchange; Execution. The Refunding Bonds shall
be issued in fully registered form.
The Refunding Bonds initially shall
be delivered only in book entry
form, shall be registered in the
name of the Depository or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository, and shall not be transferable
or exchangeable (except for transfer to another Depository or its nominee) without further action by the
City pursuant to the provisions of
the Trust Indenture. The principal
and any redemption premium and
the interest payable on each Refunding Bond shall be payable at the
times, to the persons and in the
manner set forth in, or referenced
by, the Trust Indenture, including,
without limitation, provisions thereof permitting special arrangements
for payments to the Depository. The
Refunding Bonds shall be signed by
the persons and in the manner set
forth in the Trust Indenture. The
Refunding Bonds shall be numbered
as determined by the Director of
Finance.
Section
5.
Sale
of
Refunding
Bonds. The Refunding Bonds shall
be sold at not less than (i) 97% of
par plus aggregate original issue
premium and minus aggregate original issue discount plus (ii) accrued
interest at private sale by the Director of Finance to one or more financial institutions selected by the
Director of Finance based on an
evaluation of the qualifications of
firms that have proposed to underwrite the Refunding Bonds (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”) in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance and the Certificate
of Award. The Director of Finance
shall cause the Refunding Bonds to
be prepared, and have the Refunding Bonds signed and delivered,
together with a true transcript of
proceedings with reference to the
issuance of the Refunding Bonds if
requested by the Original Purchaser, to the Original Purchaser upon
payment of the purchase price. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, a bond purchase agreement between the City
and the Original Purchaser, or representative thereof (the “Purchase
Agreement”), containing terms consistent with this Ordinance and that
are determined by the Director of
Finance,
based
on
the
written
advice of a Financial Advisor, to be
customary for revenue bonds issued
by governmental entities, including,
without limitation, representations
as to the accuracy and completeness
of information contained in the official statement of the City described
in Section 11. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and
for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Purchase
Agreement from the proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds to the extent
available and then from the Program Funds or from other money
lawfully available and appropriated
or to be appropriated for that purpose, as determined by the Director
of Finance. The Mayor, the Director
of Finance, the Clerk, the Director
of Law, and other City officials, as

2142

November 25, 2009
appropriate, are each authorized to
sign
any
transcript
certificates,
financial statements and other documents and instruments and to take
such actions as are necessary or
appropriate
to
consummate
the
transactions contemplated by this
Ordinance.
Section 6. Security for the Refunding Bonds. The Refunding Bonds
shall be special obligations of the
City, and the debt charges on the
Refunding Bonds shall be payable
solely from the Net Project Revenues and the Nontax Revenues.
The payment of debt charges on the
Refunding Bonds is secured by a
pledge of and lien on the Bond Fund
held by the Trustee under the Trust
Indenture and by any reserve fund
for which provision is made in the
Trust Indenture. The Refunding
Bonds are not and shall not be
secured by an obligation or pledge
of any money raised by taxation.
The Refunding Bonds do not and
shall not represent or constitute a
debt or pledge of the faith and credit or taxing power of the City, and
the owners thereof have and shall
have no right to have taxes levied
by the City for the payment of debt
charges thereon. The Refunding
Bonds shall contain a statement to
that effect and to the effect that the
Refunding Bonds are payable solely
from the Net Project Revenues and
the Nontax Revenues and are not
secured by an obligation or pledge
of any money raised by taxation.
The City covenants and agrees
that while the Refunding Bonds are
outstanding, it will appropriate and
maintain Nontax Revenues at such
times and in such amounts as will
be sufficient, together with the Net
Project Revenues and any other
funds available for the purpose, to
pay the debt charges on the Bonds
and will so restrict other obligations
payable from Nontax Revenues prior
to or on a parity with the Bonds as
will ensure the continuing availability for appropriation of sufficient Nontax Revenues to pay debt
charges when due.
Section
7.
Payment
of
Debt
Charges on the Refunding Bonds.
Nothing herein shall be construed as
requiring the City to use or apply to
the payment of debt charges on the
Refunding Bonds any funds or revenues from any source other than
Net Project Revenues and the Nontax Revenues. Subject to the requirements of Revised Code Section
176.04,
nothing
herein,
however,
shall be deemed to prohibit the City,
of its own volition, from using, to
the extent that it is authorized by
law to do so, any other resources for
the fulfillment of any of the terms,
conditions or obligations of this
Ordinance or of the Refunding
Bonds.
The City will, solely from the proceeds of the Refunding Bonds or
from the Net Project Revenues or
the Nontax Revenues, pay or cause
to be paid the debt charges on the
Refunding Bonds on the dates, at
the places and in the manner provided herein and in the Refunding
Bonds. For that purpose, in each
year while the Refunding Bonds are
outstanding, this Council, after providing for the payment of debt
charges payable on the City’s general obligation securities in that

November 25, 2009
year from sources available for that
purpose, will appropriate Nontax
Revenues required to pay, and for
the purpose of paying, the debt
charges due in that year on the
Bonds (less other money available
for the purpose) and any outstanding parity obligations payable from
Nontax
Revenues.
Further,
this
Council will give effect to such
appropriations in all Ordinances it
passes thereafter in that year appropriating money for expenditure and
encumbrance and limit the other
appropriations of Nontax Revenues
in that year to the amount available
after deducting the amount required
for the payment of debt charges
payable on the City’s general obligation securities and to pay those
debt charges. The City covenants
that, so long as any of the Refunding Bonds are outstanding, it shall
not issue any additional obligations
payable from the Nontax Revenues
on a parity with the Bonds and any
other outstanding parity obligations
payable
from
Nontax
Revenues,
unless, prior to passage of the Ordinance authorizing such parity obligations, the Director of Finance shall
have certified to this Council that
the Nontax Revenues during the preceding calendar year, adjusted to
reflect, if necessary, changes in the
rates or charges resulting in the
Nontax
Revenues,
aggregate
in
amount not less than 100% of the
highest amount of (a) debt charges
on the Bonds and (b) required payments on such proposed parity obligations and any other outstanding
parity obligations due in any succeeding calendar year.
Each obligation of the City required to be undertaken pursuant to
this Ordinance and the Refunding
Bonds is binding upon the City, and
upon each officer or employee of the
City as may from time to time have
the authority under law to take any
action on behalf of the City as may
be necessary to perform all or any
part of such obligation, as a duty of
the City and of each of those officers and employees resulting from
an office, trust or station within the
meaning of Section 2731.01 of the
Revised Code, providing for enforcement by writ of mandamus.
Section 8. Authorization of Supplemental Trust Indentures. The
Director of Finance is authorized, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
to sign and deliver to the Trustee,
in trust for the holders of the Refunding Bonds, one or more Supplemental Trust Indentures, approved
as to form and correctness by the
Director of Law, not inconsistent
with this Ordinance or the Certificate of Award, and not substantially adverse to the City as may be
approved by the Director of Finance.
The determination by the Director
of Finance that a Supplemental
Trust Indenture is not substantially
adverse to the City shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing and
delivery of that Supplemental Trust
Indenture
by
the
Director
of
Finance. Any Supplemental Trust
Indenture may contain amendments
to the Trust Indenture, as theretofor
amended, or amend and restate the
Trust Indenture, to permit the City
to obtain a Credit Support Instrument, to eliminate the Land Sales
Fund and to release from the lien
of the Trust Indenture any money

The City Record
on deposit in the Land Sales Fund,
or to permit increased flexibility for
the use of financial or credit structures and techniques determined by
the Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, to be in the best interests
of the City.
Section 9. Refunding of Series 2004
Bonds;
Escrow
Agreement.
The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, an escrow
agreement between the City and the
Trustee, as escrow trustee, providing for, among other matters: the
investment and holding in escrow of
the
proceeds
of
the
Refunding
Bonds to be applied to the refunding of the Series 2004 Bonds; the
application of the moneys derived
from those investments to the payment of the debt service charges on
the Series 2004 Bonds; and the irrevocable call for redemption of the
Series 2004 Bonds. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and
for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the escrow agreement from proceeds of the Refunding Bonds to the extent available
and then from Program Funds or
from other money lawfully available
and appropriated or to be appropriated for that purpose, as determined
by the Director of Finance. Provision shall be made in the escrow
agreement to give the Trustee any
written notice of redemption required under the Trust Indenture.
The Director of Finance and other
appropriate City officials shall sign
all documents and take all other
actions necessary or appropriate on
the part of the City to effect such
refunding in accordance with the
Trust Indenture and to cause the
Series 2004 Bonds to be deemed paid
and discharged, including without
limitation, the retention of an independent firm of accountants to verify the mathematical accuracy of
the calculations relating to the
escrow.
Section 10. Conversion and Remarketing. In the event that the Director of Finance determines, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, that it is advantageous to
the City to convert the interest on
any Series 2008 Bonds to fixed interest rates for a period of time or to
maturity, or to convert the interest
on any Series 2008 Bonds to a different variable rate period or mode,
the City shall undertake the conversion and remarketing in accordance with the Trust Indenture. In
connection with any conversion and
remarketing of Series 2008 Bonds,
the Director of Finance is authorized to obtain one or more Credit
Support Instruments if the Director
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
the Credit Support Instrument will
facilitate the remarketing of the
Series 2008 Bonds. In the event the
Director
of
Finance
determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that it is necessary to supplement or amend the
Trust Indenture or any Supplemental Trust Indenture in order to address current market conditions or
to permit the use of a Credit Support Instrument or to otherwise obtain financing arrangements advantageous to the City, the Director of

2143

15
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver an amendment of the Trust
Indenture or Supplemental Trust Indenture, or an amended and restated Trust Indenture or Supplemental
Trust Indenture, approved as to
form by the Director of Law. The
costs of any conversion and remarketing of the Series 2008 Bonds may
be paid, as determined by the Director of Finance, from the Program
Funds or, to the extent available,
from Fund 01 SF 001 and remarketing proceeds, or from other money
lawfully available and appropriated
or to be appropriated for that purpose. The Director of Finance is
authorized to prepare one or more
disclosure documents in connection
with any conversion and remarketing under the same terms and conditions as set forth in Section 11 of
this
Ordinance
with
respect
to
Refunding Bonds. The Director of
Finance and other City officials are
authorized to sign and deliver such
instruments, certificates and documents as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions
authorized by this Section. The
Director of Finance, the Director of
Law and other City officials, as
appropriate, are authorized to make
the
necessary
arrangements
on
behalf of the City to establish the
date, location, procedure and conditions for the conversion and remarketing of any Bonds and to take all
actions necessary to effect the conversion and remarketing of any
Bonds under the terms of this Ordinance and the Trust Indenture. The
Clerk of Council or other appropriate official of the City shall furnish
the Trustee a true transcript of proceedings certified by the Clerk or
other official, of all proceedings had
with reference to the conversion and
remarketing of any Bonds along
with
such
information
for
the
records as is necessary to determine
the validity of the conversion and
remarketing.
Section 11. Official Statements;
Continuing Disclosure. The Director
of Finance is authorized, on behalf
of the City and in her official capacity, to (i) prepare or cause to be prepared, and make or authorize modifications, completions or changes of
or supplements to, disclosure documents in the form of a preliminary
official statement relating to the
issuance of the Refunding Bonds,
and (ii) determine, and certify or
otherwise represent, when the preliminary official statement as so
prepared is a “deemed final” official
statement
(except
for
permitted
omissions) by the City as of its date
for
purposes
of
Securities
and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Rule
15c2-12(b)(1). The distribution and
use of a preliminary official statement is authorized and approved.
The Director of Finance is also
authorized, on behalf of the City
and in her official capacity, to complete the preliminary official statement
with
such
modifications,
changes and supplements as the
Director of Finance shall approve or
authorize for the purpose of preparing and determining, and to certify
or otherwise represent, that the official statement as so revised is a
final official statement for purposes
of SEC Rule 15c2-12(b) (3) and (4).
The Director of Finance is further
authorized to use and distribute, or

16
authorize the use and distribution
of, a final official statement and
supplements thereto in connection
with the original issuance of the
Refunding Bonds as may, in her
judgment, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is further authorized to sign and deliver,
on behalf of the City and in her official capacity, a final official statement and such certificates in connection with the accuracy of the preliminary official statement and the
final official statement and any
amendments thereto as may, in their
judgment, also be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance
is authorized to contract for services
for the production and distribution
of preliminary and final official
statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Refunding Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as
an obligated person with respect to
the Refunding Bonds under, SEC
Rule 15c2 12, to provide or cause to
be provided such financial information and operating data and notices,
in such manner, as may be required
for purposes of SEC Rule 15c2 12. In
order to describe and specify certain
terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that purpose,
and
thereby
to
implement
that
agreement, including provisions for
enforcement, amendment and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized to prepare, or cause to be
prepared, and to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
a continuing disclosure agreement
or certificate, which shall constitute
the continuing disclosure agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Refunding Bonds in accordance
with SEC Rule 15c2 12. The performance of that agreement shall be
subject to the availability of funds
and their annual appropriation to
meet
costs
the
City
would
be
required to incur to perform it.
Section 12. Ratings; Credit Enhancement. If, in the judgment of
the Director of Finance, based on
written advice of a Financial Advisor, the filing of an application for
a rating on the Refunding Bonds by
one or more nationally recognized
rating agencies is in the best interests of the City, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare
and submit those applications and to
provide to each such agency such
information as may be required for
the
purpose.
The
Director
of
Finance is authorized to contract for
one or more Credit Support Instruments for any Outstanding Bonds
bearing interest at variable rates or
for the Refunding Bonds if she
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
the Credit Support Instruments will
result in debt service savings to the
City, or will stabilize interest rates
on those Bonds or will minimize the
risk of increased interest expense
on those Bonds. The cost of obtaining each rating and each Credit Support
Instrument,
except
to
the
extent paid by the Original Purchaser in accordance with the Purchase Agreement, shall be paid from
the
proceeds
of
the
Refunding
Bonds or the Program Funds or
from other money lawfully available

The City Record
and appropriated or to be appropriated for that purpose, as determined
by the Director of Finance.
Section 13. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more Financial
Advisors, from time to time, to
assist the Director of Finance in
making any of the determinations
required by this Ordinance to be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Director of Finance
may rely on the written advice of
any Financial Advisor so retained.
Any Financial Advisor or consultant
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent
of the underwriters and any other
party interested in the transaction.
Section 14. Captions, Headings,
and Section References. The captions and headings in this Ordinance
are solely for convenience of reference and in no way define, limit, or
describe the scope or intent of any
Sections, subsections, paragraphs,
subparagraphs, or clauses hereof.
Reference to a Section means a section of this Ordinance unless otherwise indicated.
Section 15. Severability. Each section of this Ordinance and each subdivision or paragraph of any section
is hereby declared to be independent
and the finding or holding of any
section or any subdivision or paragraph of any section to be invalid
or void shall not be deemed or held
to affect the validity of any other
section, subdivision or paragraph of
this Ordinance.
Section 16. Interpretation. Any provisions of the Codified Ordinances
of the City which are inconsistent
with the provisions of this Ordinance
shall not apply to the Bonds or matters authorized herein. Nothing in
this Ordinance is intended to, and no
provision hereof shall be applied in
any manner as would, impair the
obligation of contract of the City
with respect to any outstanding
bonds, certificates of indebtedness,
other obligations, Trust Indentures
or other agreements or contracts
made or entered into by the City.
Section 17. Validity. This Council
finds and determines that this Ordinance was passed in compliance
with all applicable provisions of the
City’s Charter and the rules of this
Council. This Council further finds
and determines that all acts and
conditions necessary to be done or
performed by the City or to have
been met precedent to and in the
issuing of the Refunding Bonds in
order to make them legal, valid, and
binding special obligations of the
City have been performed and have
been met, or will at the time of
delivery of the Refunding Bonds
have been performed and have been
met, in regular and due form as
required by law, and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional, is
applicable to the issuance of the
Refunding Bonds.
Section 18. Compliance with Open
Meeting Requirements. This Council
finds and determines that all formal
actions of this Council and any of
its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this Ordinance
were taken in an open meeting of
this Council or committees, and that
all deliberations of this Council and

2144

November 25, 2009
any of its committees that resulted
in those formal actions were in
meetings open to the public, all in
compliance with the law.
Section 19. Sunset of Authorization. The authority granted by this
Ordinance shall expire two years
from the effective date of this Ordinance. If a preliminary official
statement with respect to the Refunding Bonds is distributed under
the authority of this Ordinance at
any time within the two-year period
following its effective date, then the
authority granted by this Ordinance
shall not expire as to those Refunding Bonds. The Director of Finance
shall notify the Chairman of the
Finance Committee and the Clerk of
this Council of the initiation of the
issuance of any Refunding Bonds
under the authority of this Ordinance.
Section 20. Emergency. This Ordinance is hereby declared to be an
emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1719-09.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the acceptance of certain easement interests from Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority for
public right-of-way purposes as part
of the Euclid Corridor Project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to accept certain easement rights, at no cost to
the City of Cleveland, in and along
Euclid Avenue from Public Square
through University Circle to the City
corporation line from Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority for
public right-of-way purposes as part
of the Euclid Corridor Project. The
easements are more fully depicted
on the map located in File No. 171909-A.
Section 2. That, after approval by
the Director of Law, the Director of
Public Service is authorized to execute all documents, on behalf of the
City, to accept certain rights in and
to the property.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.

November 25, 2009

The City Record

17

Ord. No. 1720-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to provide the transfer of Three Million Twenty Four Thousand Two Hundred Dollars
($3,024,200) within various divisions of the General Fund; Five Hundred Thousand ($500,000) within the Special
Revenue Fund; Forty Five Thousand Dollars ($45,000) within the Enterprise Fund.
Whereas, in accordance with Section 41 of the Charter, the Mayor has recommended in writing the within transfer; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the sum of Three Million Five Hundred Sixty Nine Thousand Two Hundred Dollars ($3,569,200)
be the same and hereby transferred as follows:
Transfer
To

Transfer
From

GENERAL FUND
Council and Clerk of Council
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

$
$

5,000
-

$
$

5,000

TOTAL LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

$

5,000

$

5,000

Judicial Branch
Housing Division
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

$
$

50,000

$
$

50,000
-

Clerks Division
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

$
$

250,000

$
$

250,000
-

TOTAL MUNICIPAL COURT

$

300,000

$

300,000

Division of Fire
II
Other Expenses

$

240,000

$

-

Division of Dog Pound
I
Personnel and Related Expenses

$

5,000

$

-

House of Corrections
II
Other Expenses

$

100,000

$

-

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

$

345,000

$

-

Waste Collection and Disposal
Personnel and Related Expenses
I

$

500,000

$

-

Engineering and Construction
I
Personnel and Related Expenses

$

300,000

$

-

Division of Traffic Engineering
I
Personnel and Related Expenses

$

25,000

$

-

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE

$

825,000

$

-

Research, Planning and Development
I
Personnel and Related Expenses

$

35,000

$

-

Boxing and Wrestling Commission
II
Other Expenses

$

250,000

$

-

Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
I
Personnel and Related Expenses

$

200

$

-

TOTAL PARKS, RECREATION AND PROPERTIES

$

285,200

$

-

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS

2145

The City Record

18

November 25, 2009

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING
Building and Housing Dir Office
I
Personnel and Related Expenses

$

3,000

$

-

TOTAL BUILDING AND HOUSING

$

3,000

$

-

Board of Zoning Appeals
I
Personnel and Related Expenses

$

500

$

-

Division of Health
II
Other Expenses

$

60,000

$

-

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

$

60,000

$

-

Information Tech & Planning
I
Personnel and Related Expenses

$

500

$

-

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

$

500

$

-

$

400,000

$

-

$

400,000

$

-

Other Administrative
II
Other Expenses

$

800,000

$

-

Transfers to Other Funds
II
Other Expenses

$

-

$

2,719,200

TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL

$

800,000

$

2,719,200

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$

3,024,200

$

3,024,200

$
$

500,000
-

$
$

500,000

$

500,000

$

500,000

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$
$

20,000

$
$

20,000
-

West Side Market
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

$
$

25,000

$
$

25,000
-

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PARKS

$

45,000

$

45,000

TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

$

45,000

$

45,000

TOTAL NON GF

$

545,000

$

545,000

TOTAL ALL FUNDS

$

3,569,200

$

3,569,200

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

DEPARTMENT OF LAW
Law
II

Other Expenses

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF LAW
NONDEPARTMENTAL

SPECIAL REVENUE FUND
Streets
I
II

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

TOTAL SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS
ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS
Golf
I
II

Section 2. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.

2146

The City Record

November 25, 2009

19

Ord. No. 1722-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make temporary appropriations for the current payrolls and other ordinary expenses
of the City of Cleveland from the period from January 1, 2010 until the effective date of the annual appropriation
ordinance for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010.
Whereas, it is desired to postpone the passage of the annual appropriation ordinance until the amended certificate is received, based on the actual balances as the same may be determined by the Director of Finance and
the County Budget Commission; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. To provide for the current payrolls, sinking fund and other ordinary expenses of the City of Cleveland for the period from January 1, 2010 until the effective date of the Annual Appropriation Ordinance for the
fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, there be and there is hereby appropriated for the period from January 1,
2010 until the effective date of the Annual Appropriation Five Hundred Four Million, Three Hundred Fifty Nine
Thousand, Two Hundred Thirty Two Dollars ($504,359,232) out of taxes due the City of Cleveland and any other
revenues accrued or occurring during said period of time and said funds are respectively appropriated as follows:
GENERAL FUND
Legislative Branch
Judicial Branch
Executive Branch
Office of the Mayor
Office of the Mayor
Department of Public Safety
Community Relations Board
Department of Consumer Affairs
Department of Public Service
Department of Parks, Recreation & Properties
Boxing and Wrestling Commission
Urban Planning & Development
Department of Public Health
Department of Aging
Support Functions
Transfers to Other Funds

$
$

2,509,025
16,421,710

658,031
643,904
90,215,034
344,412
93,248
11,223,472
13,394,935
1,493
3,913,188
2,193,188
263,057
20,734,720
15,452,689
———————
$ 158,473,340
———————
———————
$ 177,404,075
———————
———————

TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH
TOTAL GENERAL FUND

Special Revenue Funds
Internal Service Funds
Enterprise Funds
Trust and Agency Funds
Debt Service Funds

44,155,641
9,531,487
244,854,793
3,469,774
24,943,462
———————
$ 504,359,232
———————
———————

TOTAL TEMPORARY APPROPRIATIONS FOR 2010

GENERAL FUND
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
Council and Clerk of Council
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$
$

2,509,025

1,262,849
1,246,176
––——————
2,509,025
$
––——————
––——————

TOTAL LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

JUDICIAL BRANCH
Municipal Court - Judicial Division
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,687,550
2,339,500

Municipal Court - Housing Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

836,643
65,944

Municipal Court - Clerk’s Division
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,628,288
4,863,785

$

8,027,050

$

902,587

$

7,544,321

––——————
16,421,710
$
––——————
––——————

TOTAL JUDICIAL BRANCH

2147

20

The City Record

November 25, 2009

EXECUTIVE BRANCH
Office of the Mayor
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

643,904

593,755
50,149
––——————
$
643,904
––——————
––——————

TOTAL OFFICE OF THE MAYOR

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Public Safety Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

$

1,619,057

$

50,587,953

$

26,261,555

$

6,347,650

$

371,680

$

5,027,139

678,433
940,624

Division of Police
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 46,624,670
3,963,283

Division of Fire
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 25,107,228
1,154,327

Division of Emergency Medical Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,313,166
1,034,484

Division of Dog Pound
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

240,389
131,291

Division of Correction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

3,241,060
1,786,079
––——————
$
90,215,034
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD
Community Relations Board
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

344,412

307,194
37,218
––——————
$
344,412
––——————
––——————

TOTAL COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD

DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
Consumer Affairs
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$
$

93,248

75,426
17,822
––——————
$
93,248
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE
Public Service Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

106,726
11,636

Division of Architecture
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

153,215
14,217

Division of Waste Collection and Disposal
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

4,048,187
4,227,801

2148

$

118,362

$

167,432

$

8,275,988

November 25, 2009

The City Record

21

Division of Engineering and Construction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,241,812
142,590

Division of Traffic Engineering
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

860,607
416,681

$

1,384,402

$

1,277,288

––——————
$
11,223,472
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES
Parks, Recreation, and Properties Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

Division of Research, Planning, and Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$
II.
Other Expenses

$

211,474

$

222,253

$

4,740,875

$

388,468

$

2,618,873

$

5,212,992

153,497
57,977

190,152
32,101

Division of Recreation
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,570,545
2,170,330

Division of Parking Facilities-On Street
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

362,687
25,781

Division of Property Management
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,583,443
1,035,430

Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,217,548
2,995,444
––——————
$
13,394,935
––——————
––——————

TOTAL PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES

BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION
Boxing and Wrestling Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

1,493

1,493
-

TOTAL BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION

$
1,493
––——————
––——————

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING
Building and Housing Dir. Office
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

432,599
144,640

Division of Code Enforcement
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

1,626,539
69,820

Division of Construction Permit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

441,841
7,062

$

577,248

$

1,696,459

$

448,903

––——————
$
2,722,610
––——————
––——————

TOTAL BUILDING AND HOUSING

REGULATORY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Landmarks Commission
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

2149

$
$

48,249
2,064

50,313

22

The City Record

November 25, 2009

Board of Building Standards and Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

30,716
3,186

Board of Zoning Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

52,265
5,064

$

33,902

$

57,329

––——————
$
141,544
––——————
––——————

TOTAL REGULATORY BOARDS

DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Economic Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

355,573

342,226
13,347
––——————
$
355,573
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

URBAN PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Office of Equal Opportunity
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

143,880
11,300

City Planning Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

407,572
33,765

Division of Harbors
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

25,800
71,144

$

155,180

$

441,337

$

96,944

––——————
$
3,913,188
––——————
––——————

TOTAL URBAN PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Public Health Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

162,372
103,512

Division of Health
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

578,958
792,136

Division of Environment
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

286,833
116,487

Division of Air Quality
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

40,290
112,600

$

265,884

$

1,371,094

$

403,320

$

152,890

––——————
2,193,188
$
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

DEPARTMENT OF AGING
Department of Aging
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

263,057

1 8 6 ,233
76,824
––——————
$
263,057
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF AGING

SUPPORT FUNCTIONS
FINANCIAL AND LEGAL ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
Finance Administration
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
Other Expenses
II.

2150

$
$

214,810
27,820

242,630

The City Record

November 25, 2009

23

Division of Accounts
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

361,129
254,865

Division of Assessments and Licenses
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

653,128
376,134

Division of Treasury
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

161,954
24,537

Division of Purchases and Supplies
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

134,728
17,544

Bureau of Internal Audit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

126,381
149,228

Division of Financial Reporting and Control
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

367,655
15,352

Information Systems Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

590,716
1,069,009

Information Tech & Planning
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

43,104
6,595

$

615,994

$

1,029,262

$

186,491

$

152,272

$

275,609

$

383,007

$

1,659,725

$

49,699

––——————
$
4,594,689
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

Office of Budget & Management-Budget Admin.
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

160,528
158,024

Department Law
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,861,885
1,140,353

$

318,552

$

3,002,238

––——————
$
7,915,479
––——————
––——————

TOTAL FINANCE AND LEGAL ADMINISTRATION

PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
Office of Personnel
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

312,959
359,600

Civil Service Commission
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

154,184
252,183

$

672,559

$

406,367

––——————
1,078,926
$
––——————
––——————

TOTAL PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION

NONDEPARTMENTAL
Other Administrative
Other Expenses
II.

$

11,740,315

$ 11,740,315

TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL

––——————
$
11,740,315
––——————
––——————

TOTAL SUPPORT FUNCTIONS

––——————
$
20,734,720
––——————
––——————

2151

The City Record

24

November 25, 2009

Transfers To Other Funds
II.

$

Other Expenses

15,452,689

$ 15,452,689
––——————

TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH

$ 158,473,340
––——————
––——————

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$ 177,404,075
––——————
––——————

––——————

SPECIAL REVENUE FUND

Restricted Income Tax Fund
I.
II.

Capital

$

Debt Service

II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

$

9,780,641

Other Expenses

$

1,000,000

5,245,607
4,535,034

Schools Recreation & Cultural Activities Fund
II.

33,375,000

25,000,000

Street Construction, Maintenance & Repair Fund
I.

$
8,375,000

Other Expenses

$

1,000,000
––——————
$
44,155,641
––——————
––——————

TOTAL SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS

INTERNAL SERVICE FUND

Information Systems Services-Telephone Exchange
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

II.

Other Expenses

II.

5,847,730

4,204,685

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

$

884,677

$

338,206

240,468
644,209

City Storeroom and Central Warehouse
I.

$
1,643,045

Division of Printing and Reproduction
I.

2,460,874

2,135,129

Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
I.

$
325,745

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

27,438
310,768
––——————
$
9,531,487
––——————
––——————

TOTAL INTERNAL SERVICE FUNDS

ENTERPRISE FUNDS

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES

Utilities Administration
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

II.

$

747,604

Other Expenses

$

1,092,346

123,330
624,274

Division of Fiscal Control
I.

879,338

323,527

Radio
I.

$
555,811

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$

821,629
270,717

2152

The City Record

November 25, 2009

25

Division of Water
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

II.

$

8,546,862

Other Expenses

$

64,980,138

3,038,234
5,508,628

Division of Cleveland Public Power
I.

95,879,443

73,204,345

Division of Water Pollution Control
I.

$
$ 22,675,098

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

8,145,388
56,834,750
––——————
$ 172,125,731
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL

Divisions of Cleveland Hopkins & Burke Lakefront
Airports - Operations
I.
II.

$

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

55,576,050

7,375,388
48,200,662
––——————
$
55,576,050
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION AND PROPERTIES

Division of Cemeteries
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

II.

Other Expenses

II.

871,529

$

4,608,807

$

2,006,082

$

511,786

$

8,426,857

$

16,000

604,933

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

322,793
4,286,014

Division of Convention Center
I.

$
266,596

Division of Parking Facilities-Off Street Parking
I.

711,951

313,453

Golf Course Fund
I.

$
398,498

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

861,922
1,144,160

Division of Convention Center & StadiumWest Side Market
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

129,575
382,211

Division of Convention Center & Stadium-Stadium
II.

Other Expenses

$

8,426,857

$

16,000

Division of Convention Center & StadiumEast Side Market
II.

Other Expenses

TOTAL PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES

––——————
17,153,012
$
––——————
––——————
––——————
$ 244,854,793
––——————
––——————

TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

2153

The City Record

26

November 25, 2009

AGENCY FUND
Central Collection Agency
I.
II.

$

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

3,469,774

1,909,291

Other Expenses

1,560,483
––——————
$
3,469,774
––——————
––——————

TOTAL AGENCY FUND

DEBT SERVICE FUND
Sinking Fund Commission
I.
II.
III.

$

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

24,943,462

49,002
169,427

Debt Service

24,725,033
––——————
$
24,943,462
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEBT SERVICE FUNDS

Section 2. That all expenditures and payments made under and pursuant to the ordinance appropriating such
sum or sums of money shall be charged against the annual appropriation ordinance for the fiscal year ending
December 31, 2010, when such appropriation ordinance shall become effective, and to the various departments and
divisions and payment of whose officers and employees and operating expenses such sum or sums of money hereunder shall then have paid out or expended. Provided, however, that no payment shall be made under the authority of this ordinance after the effective date of said Annual Appropriation Ordinance for the fiscal year ending
December 31, 2010.
Section 3. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1723-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make additional appropriations of Eight Hundred Thousand ($800,000) of Convention
Center Funds.
Whereas, there remains an unappropriated balance in the various funds, the sum of Eight Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($800,000) which is available for additional appropriation; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That there is hereby appropriated the additional revenue as set forth in the Amended Official
Certificate of Estimated Resources previously unappropriated as follows:
ENTERPRISE FUNDS

$

TOTAL ALL FUNDS

——————
$
800,000

800,000

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION AND PROPERTIES
Division of Convention Center & Stadium - Stadium
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

350,000

Other Expenses

$

450,000

$

800,000

$

800,000

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION
AND PROPERTIES
——————

––——————
$
800,000

——————
——————

––——————
––——————

TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

Section 2. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.

2154

November 25, 2009
Ord. No. 1724-09.
By Council Members Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of rehabilitating, renovating, reconstructing, or otherwise
improving various Public Service
facilities; authorizing the Director of
Public Service to enter into one or
more public improvement contracts to
construct
the
improvement;
and
authorizing the director to employ
one or more professional consultants
necessary to design the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to make
the public improvement of rehabilitating, renovating, reconstructing, or otherwise improving various Public Service
facilities, including but not limited to,
replacing the roof at the Charles V.
Carr Center, upgrading the HVAC
and repairing the concrete floor at
the East 49th Street Motor Vehicle
Maintenance Garage, repairing the
wall and door at the Ridge Road Service facility; and replacing the fence
at the Glenville Service Facility (the
“Improvement”), for the Division of
Architecture, Department of Public
Service, by one or more contracts duly
let to the lowest responsible bidder or
bidders after competitive bidding for
a gross price for the Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the Improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding for a gross price
for the Improvement, provided, however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the
Improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a gross price.
On request of the Director the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule of unit prices, including profit
and overhead, for all items constituting units of the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to apply
and pay for permits, licenses, or
other authorizations required by any
regulatory agency or public authority to permit performance of the
work authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to design
the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Service from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Service for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director
of Public Service, and certified by the
Director of Finance.

The City Record
Section 5. That the cost of the contracts and other expenditures authorized shall be paid from Fund Nos.
20 SF 381, 20 SF 391, 20 SF 503, 20
SF 509, 20 SF 517, and 20 SF 524,
Request No. 186911.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1725-09.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Sisters of Charity Foundation
for the Project HEAL – Healthy
Eating Active Living Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate amount of $51,500, and any
other funds that may become available during the grant term from the
Sisters of Charity Foundation to conduct the Project HEAL – Healthy Eating Active Living Program; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes described in the summary for the grant
contained in the file described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1725-09-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees on
Health and Human Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 1726-09.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 11717 Kelton Avenue
to James Williams.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement

2155

27
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section 183.021
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized
to sell the real property, more fully
described below, to James Williams.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 120-10-127
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio;
and known as being Sublot No. 21 in
H. Clark Fords Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos.
387 and 388, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 14 of Maps, Page
47 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 40 feet front on the Northerly
side of Kelton Avenue, NE, and extending back between parallel lines
125 feet deep as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed shall contain such provisions as
may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest including such
restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by
the Board of Control, the Director of
Community Development or the Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

28

The City Record

November 25, 2009

FIRST READING ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 1727-09.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An ordinance to change the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands located on the south side of Carnegie Avenue
and the north side of Cedar between East 100 Street and East 106th as shown on the attached map to an Institutional
Research Use District, a ‘D’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District (Map Change No. 2290; Sheet No. 5 & 9).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of East 100th Street at its intersection with the centerline of Carnegie Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Carnegie Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of
the easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to The Cleveland Clinic Foundation by deed dated April 4th 2006
and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200604040759 said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County Recorder’s
Permanent Parcel Number 119-25-030;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly
line of Sublot Number 3 in the Chas Compton Heirs Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 20, Page
27 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the
northerly prolongation of the centerline of East 106th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Cedar Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Cedar Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of East 100th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of East 100th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Carnegie
Avenue and the principal place of beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to an Institutional Research Use District, a ‘D’ Area District and
a ‘3’ Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2290, Sheet Numbers 5 and 9 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in
the office of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate
person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

2156

November 25, 2009

The City Record

29

FIRST READING EMERGENCY ORDINANCES READ IN FULL AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1721-09.
By Council Members Pruitt and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving in its entirety the Fact-Finder’s report, findings and recommendations in
the matter of City of Cleveland and the Communication Workers of America, Local 4340 (CWA); to amend Section 33 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008; and to supplement Ordinance No. 947-08, by enacting new Section 22a, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, having duly considered the Fact-Finder’s report, findings and recommendations in the matter
of City of Cleveland and the Communications Workers of America, Local 4340, (CWA) which were delivered to
the City on November 17, 2009, which the City received by e-mail, a copy of which is contained in File No. 172109-A, this Council accepts the Fact-Finder’s report, findings, and recommendations in their entirety, including the
agreements reached between the City and CWA, as set forth in the executive summary also placed in the file,
which provide, among other things, for an increase in the salaries and wages for members of the bargaining unit
under the following schedule:
Increase

Approximate Date of Increase*

0%
0%
2%

April 1, 2007
April 1, 2008
April 1, 2009

*Wage increases shall be effective as follows:
(a) If April 1st falls in the first week of a pay period, then the wage increase shall be effective commencing
at the beginning of that pay period; or
(b) If April 1st falls in the second week of a pay period, then the wage increase shall be effective commencing at the beginning of the next pay period.
Section 2. That Section 33 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008 is amended to read as follows:
Section 33. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.

Airport Maintenance Superintendent ...................................
Assistant Commissioner of Recreation...............................
Assistant Contract Compliance Officer ..............................
Assistant Director of Public Health Nurses ....................
Assistant Income Tax ...............................................................
Assistant Manager of Audit Control and Personnel .......
Assistant Manager of Recreation .........................................
Assistant Superintendent of Pumping ................................
Assistant Superintendent of Purification ..........................
Auditor ............................................................................................
Chief Alcoholism Coordinating Service ..............................
Chief of the Demolition Bureau ...........................................
Chief Plan Examiner ................................................................
City Planner..................................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Recreation-Fiscal Control..........
Deputy Project Director ...........................................................
Desktop Publishing Specialist ...............................................
District Supervisor – Environmental Health ...................
Income Tax Supervisor.............................................................
Office of Professional Standards – Investigative
Auditor ........................................................................................
Office of Professional Standards – Standards
Research/Analyst ....................................................................
Assistant Plumbing Inspector................................................
Project Program Director of Consumer Affairs .............
Recreation Center Manager ....................................................
Superintendent of Light Equipment
Maintenance ..............................................................................
Superintendent of Vehicle Administrative Services ..........
Supervisor Administrative Services-Data
Processing Center ...................................................................
Supervisor of Milk Program...................................................
Supervisor of Vector Control..................................................
Welfare Liaison ...........................................................................

Minimum
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$30,000.00
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,231.40
$20,092.80
$20,092.80

Maximum
$61,296.21
$69,660.19
$55,191.48
$55,191.48
$55,191.48
$57,123.96
$55,191.48
$55,191.48
$55,191.48
$57,123.96
$55,191.48
$55,191.48
$57,123.96
$58,939.58
$69,660.19
$61,006.23
$56,422.81
$58,939.58
$55,191.48

$20,092.80

$55,191.48

$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$32,500.00

$55,191.48
$39,971.83
$55,191.48
$69,660.19

$20,092.80
$20,092.80

$55,191.48
$68,744.81

$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80

$55,191.48
$55,191.48
$55,191.48
$55,191.48

Section 3. That Section 33 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008 is repealed.
Section 4. That Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008 is supplemented by adding new Section 22a to read
as follows:
Section 22a. Communication Workers of America, Local 4340 (CWA). That the salaries and compensation in the
following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing
after each classification:

1.

Emergency Medical Technician Supervisor ......................

Minimum
$20,092.80

Maximum
$58,266.43

Section 5. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter, and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

2157

30
Ord. No. 1728-09.
By Council Members Cloud and
Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing to enter into an
agreement with the Glenville Development Corporation for the Demolition/Disposition Initiative through
the use of Ward(s) 8 and 9 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing is authorized to enter into an
agreement with the Glenville Development Corporation for the Demolition/Disposition Initiative for the
public purpose of accessing and prioritizing those residential housing
structures that are in the city of
Cleveland
through
the
use
of
Ward(s) 8 and 9 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $20,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1729-09.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Economic Development to enter into
agreement with Youngstown Donut
Associates LLC., for the Dunkin
Donuts Development Project through
the use of Ward 1 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Economic Development is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Youngstown Donut
Associates LLC., for the Dunkin
Donuts Development Project for the
public purpose of providing new job
creation
to
Cleveland
residents
through the use of Ward 1 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not

The City Record
to exceed $25,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1730-09.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Zone, Westbrook and Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution urging
the Ohio Senate Finance Committee
not to cut the Ohio Housing Trust
Fund, and to instead support Governor Strickland’s plan to balance the
budget.
Whereas, the Senate Finance Committee has unveiled a proposal to
balance the $851 million budget
deficit, which includes cutting the
Ohio Housing Trust Fund by $30
million over the next two years; and
Whereas, instead of delaying a
full income tax cut for two years,
as Governor Strickland has proposed, the Senate Finance Committee wants to give one-third of the
tax cut back and instead fill the
budget hole by cutting a fund for
housing and homelessness services;
and
Whereas, housing providers have
already lost Ohio Housing Trust
Fund revenue that is down to $35
million from last year’s $53 million;
and
Whereas, an additional $15 million
loss would leave the Ohio Housing
Trust Fund struggling to cover even
the most basic services; and
Whereas, currently there is only
enough funding to serve 82,000
homeless people through 90 homeless service projects, but even that
would be threatened under the Senate Finance Committee’s proposal;
and
Whereas, with homeless numbers
growing and record foreclosures
being filed, Ohio must protect the
Housing Trust Fund from raids in
any budget fix plan; and
Whereas, Governor Strickland and
the Ohio House of Representatives
already have a proposal to balance
the budget that enjoys wide support
from organizations as diverse as ProgressOhio, the Ohio Chamber of Commerce, and Ohio Business Roundtable; the Senate Finance Committee
should support this proposal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public

2158

November 25, 2009
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the Ohio Senate Finance Committee
not to cut the Ohio Housing Trust
Fund, and instead to support Governor Strickland’s plan to balance
the budget.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution to
the Ohio Senate Finance Committee,
Governor Strickland, the Ohio House
of
Representatives,
ProgressOhio
and Mayor Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final Adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
21. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1731-09.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit at 3337 Central Avenue, and repealing Resolution
No. 1130-09, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 3337
Central Avenue by Resolution No.
1130-09 adopted by the Council on
August 5, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Pamela
Hubbard, DBA McClain’s Market,
3337 Central Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, Permanent Number 4034257 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1130-09, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final Adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
21. Nays 0.

November 25, 2009
Res. No. 1732-09.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 Liquor Permit to 11601-05 St.
Clair Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit from James Jones Enterprises, Inc., DBA Tigers Den, 11601-05 St.
Clair Avenue, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent Number 42320070001 to Brown
Chocolate, Inc., DBA Tigers Den,
11601-05 St. Clair Avenue, 1st floor
and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44108,
Permanent Number 1006134; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from James Jones Enterprises,
Inc., DBA Tigers Den, 11601-05 St.
Clair Avenue, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent Number 42320070001 to Brown
Chocolate, Inc., DBA Tigers Den,
11601-05 St. Clair Avenue, 1st floor
and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44108,
Permanent Number 1006134; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies

The City Record
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final Adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
21. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1733-09.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 8805
Buckeye Road, and repealing Resolution No. 1134-09, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 8805
Buckeye Road by Resolution No.
1134-09 adopted by the Council on
August 5, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Buckeye
One Stop, Inc., DBA Buckeye Marathon, 8805 Buckeye Road, Cleveland,
Ohio
44104,
Permanent
Number
1072870 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 113409, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final Adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
21. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1734-09.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit at 3019 East
116th Street, and repealing Resolution No. 1138-09, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D5 Liquor Permit to Albert Dailey,
DBA Dailey’s, 3019 East 116th Street,

2159

31
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 1896113 by Resolution No.
1138-09 adopted by the Council on
August 5, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
Liquor Permit to Albert Dailey, DBA
Dailey’s, 3019 East 116th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 1896113 be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1138-09, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final Adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
21. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1735-09.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 3258
East 140th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from Abell Food &
Deli, LLC, 3258 East 140th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 00241760005 to 3258 East
140th Street, Inc., DBA Abell Foods,
3258 East 140th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44120,
Permanent
Number
8871287; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and

32
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Abell Food &
Deli, LLC, 3258 East 140th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 00241760005 to 3258 East
140th Street, Inc., DBA Abell Foods,
3258 East 140th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44120,
Permanent
Number
8871287; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final Adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
21. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1736-09.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 12914
Griffing Avenue, and repealing Resolution No. 955-09, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 12914
Griffing Avenue by Resolution No.
955-09 adopted by the Council on
July 1, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

The City Record
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Tortolein,
Inc., DBA Gene’s Corner Beverage,
121914 Griffing Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44120,
Permanent
Number
9002086 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 95509, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final Adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
21. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1737-09.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New D3A
Liquor Permit at 3837 Ridge Road
and repealing Resolution No. 1617-09,
objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New D3A Liquor Permit to 3837
Ridge Road by Resolution No. 161709 adopted by the Council on November 9, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
D3A Liquor Permit to Ridge Road
Castle 3837 Inc., 3837 Ridge Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44144, Permanent
Number 7366153, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1617-09, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final Adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
21. Nays 0.

2160

November 25, 2009
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1532-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on West 37th Street to
Ronald B. Sarstedt.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Relieved
of Committees on Community and
Economic Development, City Planning; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 761-09.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more amendments
to Contract No. 66946 with the Cleveland National Air Show, Inc. to increase the leased premises by including the use of portions of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
for Airshow purposes.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committee on City Planning; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1050-09.
By
Council
Members
Mitchell,
Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to the Cleveland Clinic Foundation to encroach into the
public right-of-way beneath East
100th Street and Cedar Avenue by
installing, using, and maintaining
electrical service and teledata cabling duct banks.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committees on Public Service, City Planning; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1509-09.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to exercise an option to renew Contract No. 68584 with Kronos Incorporated to provide maintenance to
the current time and attendance
workforce system and software and
hardware support for the Department of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.

November 25, 2009
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1511-09.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement for the environmental clean-up of property known
as the Lower Woolen Mills; and
authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into one
or more public improvement contracts
for
the
making
of
the
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Relieved
of Committees on Community and
Economic Development, City Planning; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1514-09.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 2226 East 70th Street
to John Truett and E. Marie Truett.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Relieved
of Committees on Community and
Economic Development, City Planning; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1516-09.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 9606 Larnder Avenue
to Joseph Frank Ponikvar, Jr.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Relieved
of Committees on Community and
Economic Development, City Planning; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1538-09.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials needed to repair or replace water mains, fire hydrants,
service connections, and appurtenances, including concrete repair,
and tree lawn restoration, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of two
years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance, when amended as
follows:

The City Record
1. In the title, lines 8 and 9 strike
“two years” and insert “one year”.
2. In Section 1, line 3, strike “two
years” and insert “one year”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1539-09.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more requirement contracts without competitive bidding with Motorola for
equipment and supplies to operate
the radio system and its subscriber
units, including equipment, installation
and
maintenance,
for
the
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1540-09.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to design a pump station in the City of Aurora, including
connecting the Aurora Road water
main to the new pump station.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance, when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, line 4, and in Section 1, line 5, strike “City of Aurora” and insert “City of Bedford
Heights”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1544-09.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into lease agreements with various companies for the use of certain
Airport-owned space at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport and
Burke Lakefront Airport, for a period of two years, with two one-year
options to renew, the first of which
is exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committee on City Planning; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.

2161

33
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1546-09.
By Council Members Cleveland
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health for the 2010 Immunization
Action Plan Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1547-09.
By Council Members Cleveland
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the 2010 Federal AIDS Prevention
Program; and to enter into contract
with various agencies to implement
the program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1549-09.
By Council Members Cleveland
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Aging and Consumer Affairs to apply for and accept grants from the National Council on Aging, the Cleveland Foundation, and the McGregor Foundation for the Economic Security Project for Cleveland Seniors; and to
enter into contract with various
agencies to implement the program.
Approved by Directors of Aging,
Consumer Affairs, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Health and Human Services,
Finance, when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 2, strike
“$190,000” and insert “$230,000”.
2. In Section 2, line 1, strike “154909-A” and insert “1549-09-B”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1554-09.
By Council Member Cloud.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on St. Clair Avenue to
Rania Najjar.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Relieved
of Committees on Community and
Economic Development, City Plan-

The City Record

34
ning; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1555-09.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Hough Avenue to
Geraldine Laster and Bobbie C. Laster.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Relieved
of Committees on Community and
Economic Development, City Planning; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1620-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase, lease
or lease to purchase by requirement
contract of various types of vehicles
and apparatus, including maintenance, for various Divisions in the
Departments of Public Service, Parks,
Recreation and Properties, and Public Safety, among others.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 1415-09.
By
Council
Members
Mitchell,
Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
East 106th Place.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committees on Public Service, City Planning;
Adoption
recommended
by
Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:15 p.m. to meet on Monday, November 30, 2009 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chambers.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

November 18, 2009
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, November 18,
2009, at 10:30 a.m. with Director Triozzi presiding.
Present: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors R.
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Rehor,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Others: Jim Hardy, Commissioner,
Purchases and Supplies.
Natoya Walker, Acting Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 520-09.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on October 16, 2009
for the purchase of an estimated
quantity of precast concrete manholes and accessory pieces, for the
Divisions of Cleveland Public Power,
Water, and Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, under
the authority of Section 129.26 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, are rejected.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors R.
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Rehor,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 521-09.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 2103-04, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
December 13, 2004, the firm of Science Applications International Corporation (“Consultant”), is selected
upon the nomination of the Director
of Port Control from a list of qualified persons or firms determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Port Control as the
firm of consultants available to be
employed by contract to supplement
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City to
provide professional services necessary to provide management of sampling and analytical service needs
at Cleveland Hopkins International
and Burke Lakefront airports for a
period of two years, with two oneyear options to renew, for the various divisions of the Department of
Port Control.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract
with Science Applications International Corporation for the abovementioned services, based upon its
proposal dated June 26, 2009, which
contract shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, shall provide that
the compensation to Science Applica-

2162

November 25, 2009
tions International Corporation for
the services authorized shall not
exceed $600,000.00 and shall contain
such other provisions as the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subconsultants by Science Applications International Corporation is approved:
Subconsultants

Percentage
Amount

Eden Environmental,
Inc.
26.08% CSB/FBE
$156,500.00
G & T Associates, Inc. 0.33% CSB/FBE
$ 2,000.00
DLZ Ohio, Inc.

TestAmerica
Laboratories, Inc.

KS Associates, Inc.

1.30% MBE
$ 7,800.00

4.38% Non
CSB/MBE/FBE
$ 26,300.00
0.33% Non
CSB/MBE/FBE
$ 2,000.00

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors R.
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Rehor,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 522-09.
By Director Smith.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 119-04, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
February 2, 2004, the City through
its Director of Port Control, entered
into a Lease By Way of Concession,
City Contract No. 62837, (“Lease”)
with Air Services of Cleveland, Inc.
(“Air Services”), for the use and
occupancy of the Secondary Hangar
at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport (“Leasehold Premises’); and
Whereas, under Board of Control
Resolution No. 715-05, adopted December 14, 2005, also numbered as
Resolution No. 699-05, this Board
consented to the assignment of all
of Air Services’ interests and certain
obligations under City Contract No.
62837 to Mercury Air Services, LLC
(“Mercury”) effective December 15,
2005; and
Whereas, under Article XIII of the
Lease Mercury desires to sublease
portions of its Leasehold Premises
at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport to Constant Aviation, LLC
(“Constant”) and Corporate Wings
Technical Services, LLC (“Corporate
Wings”); now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the terms of the Lease, this
Board approves the request of Mercury Air Services, LLC to enter into
subleases with Corporate Wings for
Corporate Wings’ exclusive use of
1,000 square feet of office space in
the Secondary Hangar and Constant
for Constant’s exclusive use of Bay
F and one half of Bay E in the Sec-

November 25, 2009
ondary Hangar. The term of the subleases shall be for a period of fifty
months commencing on November 1,
2009 and ending on December 31,
2014. The term of the subleases shall
be automatically extended through
any subsequent renewal of the Lease,
provided further provided that the
terms of the subleases shall not be
in conflict with the terms of City
Contract No. 62837.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to execute all documents and
to do all things necessary and appropriate to effect the consent to the
subleases approved, which documents shall contain such additional
terms and conditions as the Director
shall deem necessary and appropriate to protect the City’s interests.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors R.
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Rehor,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 523-09.
By Director Smith.
Whereas, Standard Parking Corporation (“Standard”) wishes to utilize Ninth Street Lots Nos. 9 and 10
for special event parking (“Ninth
Street Lots”) between March 1, 2009
and January 31, 2010; and
Whereas, the City is willing to
grant Standard the privilege, permit
and license to utilize the Ninth
Street Lots for special event parking; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that pursuant to Section 183.04 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Director of the Department
of Port Control is hereby authorized
to enter into an agreement (“Agreement”) granting Standard Parking
Corporation the privilege, permit and
license to utilize the Ninth Street
Lots
for
special
event
parking
between March 1, 2009 and January
31, 2010. The number of days on
which the special event parking may
be conducted shall not exceed thirty
days. Standard Parking Corporation
shall remit to the City all parking
revenues less $370.00 per special
event and any applicable sales tax
due any taxing authorities in connection with its special event parking operations.
Be it further resolved that the
Agreement authorized hereby shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain such other provisions, as the Director deems necessary to benefit and protect the public interest.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors R.
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Rehor,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 524-09.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that the
bid of Patrick O’Brien Jr. Chevrolet,

The City Record
Inc. dba Pat O’Brien Chevrolet for an
estimated quantity of Chevrolet parts
and labor, (all items), for the Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the period
of three years beginning with the date
of execution of a contract, received on
September 24, 2009, under the authority of Section 131.17 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $350,000.00
(Net), is affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director
of Public Service is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services, which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of the contract the following:
Requisition No. 191473
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $35,000.00.
The requirement contract shall further provide that the Contractor shall
furnish the remainder of the City’s
requirements for the goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors R.
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Rehor,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 525-09.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Southeastern Equipment
Co., for an estimated quantity of
four trailer mounted air compressors
and related equipment, all items, for
the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the period of one year
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on September 30, 2009, under the authority
of Ordinance No. 902-07, passed on
July 11, 2007, and Ordinance No. 59108, passed on July 2, 2008 as amended by Ordinance No. 1849-08, passed
on January 26, 2009, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would
amount
to
approximately
$64,676.00 (Net), is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of the contract the following:
Requisition No. 191468
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $64,676.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors R.
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Direc-

2163

35
tor H. Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Rehor,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 526-09.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Hans’ Freightliner of
Cleveland, Inc., for an estimated
quantity of five cab & chassis with
large-sized USV bodies and related
equipment, all items, including all
warranty options, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the
period of one year beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on September 25, 2009,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
902-07, passed by Cleveland City
Council July 11, 2007; and Ordinance
No. 591-08, passed on July 2, 2008, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1849-08,
passed on January 26, 2009, which
on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to $754,400.00
(Net), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of the contract the following:
Requisition No. 191470
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $754,400.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors R.
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Rehor,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 527-09.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Best Equipment Co., Inc.,
for an estimated quantity of two cab
and chassis with sewer cleaner bodies, all items, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the period of one year beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,
received on August 21, 2009, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 88706, passed by Cleveland City Council August 9, 2009, and Ordinance No.
902-07, passed on July 11, 2007,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $490,766.00
(Net), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of the contract the following:

36
Requisition No. 191443
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $490,766.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors R.
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Rehor,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 528-09.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Cleveland Peterbilt, LLC,
for an estimated quantity of two
tandem axle cab & chassis equipped
for snowplows and related equipment, all items, including all warranty options, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the
period of one year beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on September 30, 2009,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
591-08, passed on July 2, 2008, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1849-08,
passed on January 26, 2009, which
on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to $401,438.24
(Net), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of the contract the following:
Requisition No. 191482
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $401,438.24.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors R.
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Rehor,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 529-09.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Cleveland Peterbilt, LLC,
for an estimated quantity of two single-axle cab & chassis equipped for
snowplows and related equipment,
all items, including all warranty
options, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service, for the period of one
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on Sep-

The City Record
tember 30, 2009, under the authority
of Ordinance No. 591-08, passed on
July 2, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 1849-08, passed on January 26, 2009, which on the basis of
the estimated quantity would amount
to $327,306.08 (Net), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of the contract the following:
Requisition No. 191481
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $327,306.08.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors R.
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Rehor,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 530-09.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that all bids received on July 29,
2009, for the 2009 Concrete Requirements Contract — ADA Curb Ramps,
for the Division of Engineering and
Construction, Department of Public
Service, under the authority of Ordinance No. 450-09, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on June 8,
2009, are rejected.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors R.
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Rehor,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 531-09.
By Director Carroll.
Resolved by the Board of Control of
the City of Cleveland that the bid of
L & L Landscaping & Snowplowing,
Inc. for snow and ice removal at the
Health Centers, all items, for the
Division of Health, Department of
Public Health, for a period of one
year beginning on execution of a
contract, received on August 20,
2009, under the authority of Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to $22,000.00, is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Health is
requested to enter into a requirement
contract
for
the
services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of the contract of the following:
Requisition No. 174369
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $22,000.00.

2164

November 25, 2009
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the City’s requirements
for Snow and Ice Removal at the
Health Centers, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors R.
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Rehor,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 532-09.
By Director Carroll.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of KONE Inc. for elevator repair and
maintenance service at the MilesBroadway Health Center (9127 Miles
Ave.), McCafferty Health Center
(4242 Lorain Ave.), and the J. Glen
Smith Health Center (11100 St. Clair
Ave.), all items, for the Division of
Health, Department of Public Health,
for a period of two years beginning
on execution of a contract, received
on August 27, 2009, under the authority of Section 181.101 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, which
on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to $66,248.00, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Health is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for such
labor and materials necessary, which
shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of the
contract of the following:
Requisition No. 174371
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $15,624.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such labor
and materials, whether more or less
than the estimated quantity, as may
be ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Be it further resolved by the Board
of Control that the employment of
the following sub-contractor by Kone
Inc. is approved:
Subcontractor

Phillips Electric
dba Redmond Waltz

Percent
Amount

7.07%
$4,687.00

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors R.
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Rehor,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 533-09.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and

November 25, 2009
Whereas, Section 183.024, Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire certain properties owned by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and Fannie Mae,
each for a price determined as Fair
Market Value, as part of the Land
Reutilization program; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 183.024, the City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 016-17060, located at 3580 West 54th Street
from HUD; and
Whereas, Daryl J. Anderson has
proposed to the City to purchase the
property for rehabilitation and/or
redevelopment; and
Whereas, Section 183.024 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies, when directed by the
Director
of
Community
Development, and with the prior written
consent of the Council member(s) in
whose ward the property acquired
from HUD or Fannie Mae to be sold
is located, to convey the property to
purchasers for the public purpose of
rehabilitation and/or resale for consideration established by the Board
of Control at not less than fair market value; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Section 183.024,
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the consideration for the
sale of Permanent Parcel No. 016-17060 to Daryl J. Anderson is established as $375.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than fair
market value taking into account
such terms and conditions, restrictions and covenants as are deemed
necessary or appropriate.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors R.
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Rehor,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 534-09.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 002-21-010, located
at Franklin Avenue under the Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No, 1561-09
passed November 9, 2009, authorized
the sale of the parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Amtrust Bank or Designee Iota Twenty Five, LLC has
proposed to the City to purchase
and develop the parcel for green
space/possibly future parking; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1561-09 passed November 9, 2009, by
the Cleveland City Council, the
Mayor is authorized to execute an
official deed for and on behalf of
the City of Cleveland with Amtrust

The City Record

37

Bank or Designee Iota Twenty Five,
LLC for the sale and development of
Permanent Parcel No. 002-21-010, as
described in the Ordinance according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$1,300.00, which amount is determined to be not less than the fair
market value of the parcel for uses
according to the Land Reutilization
Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors R.
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Rehor,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

Law and other appropriate City
officials, which is determined to be
fair market value.
Be it further resolved by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
that the Mayor and the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies are
requested to execute and deliver the
official deed of the City of Cleveland conveying the Property.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors R.
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Rehor,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

Resolution No. 535-09.
By Directors Nicholas and Cox.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1165-08, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
August 6, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 1551-09, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
October 26, 2009, the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies (“Commissioner”) is authorized, with the
approval of the Board of Control, to
sell certain City-owned property,
consisting of permanent parcel number 108-12-001 and as more specifically described in the ordinance
(“Property”), to Glenville Development Corporation, or its designee;
and,
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1165-08,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on August 6, 2008, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1551-09,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on October 26, 2009, authorizes the Director of Law to prepare
and the Mayor to execute, on behalf
of the City, the Official Deed necessary to convey the Property described in the Ordinance; and,
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1165-08,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on August 6, 2008, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1551-09,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on October 26, 2009, provided that the consideration to be
paid for the property shall not be
less than $125,000 and other valuable
consideration determined by the
Board of Control to be fair market
value; now therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1165-08, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
August 6, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 1551-09, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
October 26, 2009, the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies is directed to sell the Property “as is” to
Glenville Development Corporation,
or its designee, and the consideration for the Property shall be payment of $125,000 to the City, and
such other terms and conditions,
restrictions, and covenants as are
deemed necessary or appropriate
and specified by the Director of
Economic Development, the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties, the Mayor, the Director of

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES

2165

JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2009
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 09-227: 7505 Detroit
Avenue (Ward 17)
Rodney and Anitra Boyt, owners,
appeal to establish a retail store
that will include a use for tattooing
in an existing one-story masonry
building located on a 50.81' x
107.73' parcel in a General Retail
Business District; subject to the limitations of Section 347.12(b)(1), the
proposed use shall not be established within 1,000 feet of a residential district or a school and it
abuts a residential district to the

38
rear and is within 350 feet of Watterson-Lake K-8 Elementary School
at 1422 West 74th Street.
Calendar No. 09-229: 3280 Adolpha
Avenue, aka 3270 East 65th Street
(Ward 12)
Reginald Williams, owner, appeals to establish a used car sales
lot on a 120' x 90' corner parcel in
a Residence Industry District; and
Section 358.04 requires that a 4 foot
high ornamental fence be provided
along the length of each street right
of way, unless an alternative is otherwise approved by City Planning;
and the provisions of Section 357.14
prohibit the sale of motor vehicles
within the established 10 foot front
yard
setback
unless
specifically
authorized by the Board of Zoning
Appeals; and Sections 352.10 and
352.11 require that a used car sales
lot has a 4 feet minimum width of
landscape border along all public
street frontage; and no customer
parking is provided, contrary to Section 349.04(f) and a provision for
parking at 25 percent of the gross
lot area; and Section 349.07(b) requires that accessory off-street parking spaces shall be provided with
wheel or bumper guards, located so
that no part of a parked vehicle
extends beyond such parking spaces
and parking spaces shall be equal
to 180 square feet, as stated in Section 325.03 of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 09-231: 10433 Edgewater Drive (Ward 18)
Louis Carlozzi, owner, appeals to
erect a 24' x 36' two-story frame
garage on a 75' x 186.90' parcel in
a Limited One-Family District, where
an accessory building shall not exceed 15 feet in height or the distance from the accessory building to
a main building or potential location
of a main building on an adjoining
premises, whichever is less, as required according to Section 353.05 of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 09-233: 7310 Fleet Avenue (Ward 12)
Mukesh Agarwal, owner, appeals
to construct an approximate 3,400
square foot second floor addition to
an existing day care operation and
to increase the current number from
67 children served to 137 in a onestory building on an acreage parcel
in a Two-Family District; subject to
the limitations of Section 337.03, and
by reference to Section 337.02(f)(3)(C),
the proposed use requires public
notice, hearing and approval by the
Board of Zoning Appeals to determine if adequate yard spaces and
other safeguards to preserve the
character of the neighborhood are
provided, and if in the judgment of
the Board, such buildings and uses
are appropriately located and designed and will meet a community
need without adversely affecting
the neighborhood; and the child care
business must be at least 30 feet
from neighboring premises not used
for a similar purpose; and the expansion of a nonconforming use requires the Board of Zoning Appeals
approval, according to the provisions of Section 359.01 of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.

The City Record

November 25, 2009

Calendar No. 09-234: Appeal of John
Mungai — Chauffeur License Application
John Mungai appeals under the
authority of Section 76-6 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland
from a decision of the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses for which notice was given by
letter dated October 20, 2009 that
an application for a Chauffeur’s
License was denied in accordance
with the provisions of Sections
443.131(e) and 443.131(g) of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances that
relate to Taxicabs.

Calendar No. 09-216: 4656 West 157th
Street
Dennis Frinzl appealed to erect a
front porch to a single family
dwelling in a One-Family District.
The following appeal dismissed
by the Board on November 16, 2009
was reinstated on November 23, 2009.
Calendar No. 09-221: 3651 East 55th
Street
J & G Development Corporation,
owner, and Jennie Hurt, tenant appealed to erect a pre-manufactured
wheelchair lift in the front yard of
a parcel in a Two-Family District.

Secretary
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2009
NO MEETING

At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, November 23, 2009, the following appeals
were heard by the Board.

PUBLIC NOTICE

The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 09-217: 2070 West 25th
Street
United 25th Building, owner, and
Dave Stalter, tenant, appealed to
change from a beauty salon to a
piercing and tattooing use the first
floor space of a two-story mixed use
building; subject to condition.
Calendar No. 09-220: 5604 Franklin
Boulevard
Darwin McLellan appealed to construct an extension to an existing
front porch of a one family dwelling
in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 09-223: 2783 East 124th
Street
Cleveland Green Homes East LP I
appealed to erect a second floor addition to a one family dwelling in a
Two-Family District.
The following appeal was Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 09-219: 1917 West 25th
Street
Tony Iwais, owner, and Wael
Ayyad, tenant, appealed to expand a
restaurant from 75 to 125 seats and
to add live entertainment in a General Retail Business District.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 09-222: 9704-06 Pierpont
Avenue postponed to January 19,
2010.
Calendar No. 09-118: 3710 Fulton
Road postponed to February 1,
2010.
The following appeal heard by the
Board on November 16, 2009 was
adopted and approved on November
23, 2009.
The following
proved:

appeal

2166

was

Ap-

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, December 2, 2009
1:00 p.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a public hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
Wednesday, December 2, 2009 at 1:00
p.m., to consider the following ordinance now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 1418-09.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance expanding the LiveWork Overlay District to include the
land between East 34th Street and
East 36th Street; south of Saint Clair
Avenue and shown on the attached
map (Map Change No. 2290, Sheet
No. 4).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Joseph C. Cimperman
Chairman
Committee on City Planning
_____
November 18, 2009 and November 25, 2009

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
For the purpose of Section 147(f)
of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended, notice is hereby
given that on December 9, 2009, commencing at 8:30 a.m., Cleveland,
Ohio time, a public hearing will be

November 25, 2009
held at the Property Management
Office of Boulevard Terrace Apartments, located at 10119 Detroit Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio, with respect to
the proposed issuance by the Ohio
Housing Finance Agency (the “Issuer”) of its Multifamily Housing
Revenue Bonds, Series 2009 in one
or more series pursuant to a plan of
finance, in the maximum aggregate
principal amount of $15,500,000 (the
“Bonds”).
The proceeds of the Bonds will be
used to make one or more loans (i)
to Boulevard Terrace LLC, an Ohio
limited
liability
company
(the
“Boulevard Terrace Borrower”) to
assist in financing the costs of
acquiring, renovating, equipping and
otherwise improving property located at 10109-10119 Detroit Avenue and
10106-10118 Madison Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio into approximately 116
affordable rental housing units, together with appurtenant facilities
(the “Boulevard Terrace Project”)
and (ii) to Neal Terrace LLC, an
Ohio limited liability company (the
“Neal Terrace Borrower”) to assist in
financing the costs of acquiring, renovating, equipping and otherwise
improving property located the Developer and 8811 Detroit Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio into approximately
48 affordable rental housing units,
together with appurtenant facilities
(the “Neal Terrace Project”), including, in each case, costs incidental
thereto and certain issuance costs
related to the Bonds. The Boulevard
Terrace Project will initially be
owned by the Boulevard Terrace Borrower and the Neal Terrace Project
will initially be owned by the Neal
Terrace
Borrower.
THE
BONDS,
WHEN ISSUED, WILL BE SPECIAL
OBLIGATIONS OF THE OHIO HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY AND WILL
NOT CONSTITUTE A DEBT OR A
PLEDGE OF THE FAITH AND
CREDIT OR OF THE TAXING
POWER OF THE OHIO HOUSING
FINANCE AGENCY, THE STATE
OF OHIO OR ANY POLITICAL SUBDIVISION
OF
THE
STATE
OF
OHIO. Persons wishing to express
their views on the proposed Bond
issuance may appear at the hearing
or may submit their views in writing. Any written submissions should
be sent to the attention of the Robert
D. Labes, Esq., at the law offices of
Squire, Sanders & Dempsey L.L.P.,
4900 Key Tower, 127 Public Square,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, and to Ohio
Housing Finance Agency, 57 East
Main Street, Columbus, Ohio 43215,
phone (614) 466-7970 and clearly
marked
“Re:
OHFA,
Multifamily
Housing Revenue Bonds, Series 2009
(Boulevard and Neal Project)”. Written submissions should be mailed in
sufficient time to be received no
later than 5:00 p.m., Cleveland, Ohio
time on December 8, 2009.
By order of the Ohio Housing
Finance Agency, Columbus, Ohio.
_____
November 25, 2009 and December 2, 2009

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the append-

The City Record
ed schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009
File No. 214-09 — Department of
Community Development Kitchen
and Dining Room Renovation for
the
North
Point
Transitional
Men’s Shelter, for the Division of
Architecture, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 869-08, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
July 8, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER. (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING TUESDAY,
DECEMBER 1, 2009 AT 2:00 P.M.,
THE NORTH POINT BUILDING,
1550 SUPERIOR AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44113.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
File No. 215-09 — Ridge Road Streets
Facility Wall Repair, for the Division of Architecture, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. pending, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, pending.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S

2167

39
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER. (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING TUESDAY,
DECEMBER 1, 2009 AT 10:00 A.M.,
THE RIDGE ROAD STREETS
FACILITY, 3727 RIDGE ROAD,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44144.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
November 18, 2009 and November 25, 2009
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2009
File No. 216-09 — Health Facility
Upgrades Bid Package C-Interior
Renovation and Window Replacement, for the Division of Architecture, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 487-07, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 4,
2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER. (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2009
AT 10:00 A.M., THE J. GLEN
SMITH HEALTH CENTER, 11100
ST.
CLAIR
AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44110.
November 18, 2009 and November 25, 2009
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 16, 2009
File No. 217-09 — Various Fuel Dispensing System Maintenance and
Repair, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 686-07, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland June 11, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2009 AT 10:30
A.M., THE DIVISION OF MOTOR
VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE,
4150
EAST
49TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
November 18, 2009 and November 25, 2009
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 23, 2009
File No. 218-09 — Collinwood Recreation Center, for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 59707, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 8, 2009.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT
OF A TWO HUNDRED DOLLARS ($200.00) IN THE FORM
OF
A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
AND/OR MONEY ORDER. (NO
COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH
AND NO CREDIT CARDS WILL
BE ACCEPTED).

The City Record

40
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANMEETING
DATORY
PRE-BID
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2009
AT 11:00 A.M., THE CLEVELAND
CONVENTION CENTER, 500 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44114.
File No. 219-09 — Duct Line, Street
Lighting Bases and Pull Box
Labor and Material to Install,
Repair, Replace or Maintain the
Duct Line, Street Lighting Bases
and Pull Boxes, and Other Related Incidentals, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 540-09,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 5, 2009.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT
OF ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS
($100.00) IN THE FORM OF A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
AND/OR
MONEY ORDER. (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2009 AT 10:00 A.M.,
THE CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER
DIVISION, 1300 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
November 25, 2009 and December 2, 2009

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
____________
Res. No. 1684-09.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a D1 and D2 Liquor
Permit at 2300 Euclid Avenue and
repealing Resolution No. 1615-09,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of liquor license of a D1
and D2 Liquor Permit to Compass
Group USA, Inc., DBA Elements
Bistro on Euclid, 2300 Euclid Avenue, Rooms 100, 101 & patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent No.
16679280015, adopted by the Council
on November 9, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1
and D2 Liquor Permit to Compass
Group USA, Inc., DBA Elements
Bistro on Euclid, 2300 Euclid Avenue, Rooms 100, 101 & patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number
16679280015 be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1615-09, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.

Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 16, 2009.
Effective November 23, 2009.

Res. No. 1685-09.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 910
East 185th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from Sunoco, Inc.,
R & M, DBA Sunoco 6045, 910 East
185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119,
Permanent Number 86967980080 to
Busy Store, Inc., 910 East 185th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent Number 1143619; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Sunoco, Inc., R
& M, DBA Sunoco 6045, 910 East
185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119,
Permanent Number 86967980080 to
Busy Store, Inc., 910 East 185th

2168

November 25, 2009
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent Number 1143619; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 16, 2009.
Effective November 23, 2009.

Res. No. 1686-09.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 383
East 156th Street, and repealing
Resolution No. 1140-09, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 383
East 156th Street by Resolution No.
1140-09 adopted by the Council on
August 5, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to John Dimmian, 383 East 156th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent Number
2175712 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 114009, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 16, 2009.
Effective November 23, 2009.

Res. No. 1687-09.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 18506
St. Clair Avenue, and repealing Resolution No. 1143-09, objecting to said
renewal.

November 25, 2009
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 18506
St. Clair Avenue by Resolution No.
1143-09 adopted by the Council on
August 5, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to D B Ohio
Enterprise, Inc., DBA Food Plus All,
18506 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44110,
Permanent
Number
18795700005 be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1143-09, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 16, 2009.
Effective November 23, 2009.

Res. No. 1688-09.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
15015 Ohio Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Leroy Mitchell
Investment, DBA Ty Grocery & Deli,
15015 Ohio Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44128, Permanent Number 6061857;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and

The City Record
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Leroy Mitchell
Investment, DBA Ty Grocery & Deli,
15015 Ohio Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44128, Permanent Number 6061857;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 16, 2009.
Effective November 23, 2009.

Res. No. 1689-09.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at 17426
Harvard Avenue, and repealing Resolution No. 958-09, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 17426
Harvard Avenue by Resolution No.
958-09 adopted by the Council on
July 1, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to TL Dorsey,
Inc., DBA Mr. Mac’s 17426 Harvard
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44128, Permanent Number 8948207 be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 958-09, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.

2169

41
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 16, 2009.
Effective November 23, 2009.

Res. No. 1690-09.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit at 8309 Madison Avenue, 1st
and 2nd floors.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 8309 Madison Avenue, 1st
and 2nd floors by Resolution No.
1172-09 adopted by the Council on
August 5, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to Almont, Inc., DBA Sea Level, 8309
Madison Avenue, 1st and 2nd floors,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent
Number 0142976 be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1172-09, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 16, 2009.
Effective November 23, 2009.

Ord. No. 1545-09.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. 67708 with Consolidated Electrical Distributors, Inc. dba
Leader Electric to provide electrical
parts and equipment, including labor,
materials and installation, if necessary, to maintain, repair, and modify electrical systems at airport properties for the various divisions of
the Department of Port Control.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 191-07, passed March
12, 2007, the Director of Port Control
entered into Contract No. 67708 with
Consolidated Electrical Distributors,

The City Record

42
Inc. dba Leader Electric to provide
electrical parts and equipment, including labor, materials and installation, if necessary, to maintain, repair, and modify electrical systems
at airport properties for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 191-07 requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. 67708 for an additional
year at a cost not to exceed $333,030,
with Consolidated Electrical Distributors, Inc. dba Leader Electric to
provide electrical parts and equipment, including labor, materials and
installation, if necessary, to maintain, repair, and modify electrical
systems at airport properties for the
various divisions of the Department
of Port Control. This ordinance constitutes the additional legislative
authority required by Ordinance No.
191-07 to exercise this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the

affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 16, 2009.
Effective November 23, 2009.

Ord. No. 1556-09.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. 67417 with Unison Consulting, Inc. to provide concessions
consulting services to support the
airport-wide
concessions
development, progress and forecasting for
the various divisions of the Department of Port Control.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 183-07, passed March
12, 2007, the Director of Port Control
entered into Contract No. 67417 with
Unison Consulting, Inc. to provide
concessions consulting services to
support the airport-wide concessions
development, progress and forecasting for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 183-07 requires further legislation before exercising the first option to renew on
this contract; and

November 25, 2009
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. 67417 for an additional
year at a cost not to exceed $200,000,
with Unison Consulting, Inc. to provide concessions consulting services
to support the airport-wide concessions development, progress and
forecasting for the various divisions
of the Department of Port Control.
This ordinance constitutes the additional legislative authority required
by Ordinance No. 183-07 to exercise
this option.
Section 2. That the options exercised by the Director of Port Control
shall not exceed the sum total of
$300,000.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 16, 2009.
Effective November 23, 2009.

Ord. No. 1674-09.
By Council Members Pruitt and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 47 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 1459-08, passed September 22, 2008, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 47 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 1459-08,
passed September 22, 2008, is amended to read as follows:
Section 47. Hourly Rate – MCEO
(a) Effective May 1, 2009, compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each
classification:
Minimum

Maximum

1.

Construction Equipment – Group A ....................................

$27.42

$43.90

2.

Construction Equipment – Group B ....................................

$27.27

$43.75

3.

Master Mechanic..........................................................................

$27.92

$44.40

(b) Effective October 1, 2009, compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following
classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule
for each classification:
Minimum

Maximum

1.

Construction Equipment – Group A ....................................

$27.42

$44.40

2.

Construction Equipment – Group B ....................................

$27.27

$44.25

3.

Master Mechanic..........................................................................

$27.92

$44.90

Section 2. That existing Section 47 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No.
1459-08, passed September 22, 2008, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed November 16, 2009.
Effective November 23, 2009.

2170

November 25, 2009
Ord. No. 1675-09.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into a Tenth Amendment to City
Contract No. 60428 with West Services, Inc., to provide the professional services necessary to update,
print, index and bind cumulative
supplements to the Codified Ordinances and supplements of individual parts of the Codified Ordinances,
including alternative formats and
internet updates, and to provide
reviews, comparisons and updates of
Parts IV and VI of the Codified
Ordinances to conform with amendments made to the Ohio Revised
Code, and to authorize other amendments necessary for additional printings of the Codified Ordinances and
its parts.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into a
Tenth Amendment to City Contract
No. 60428 with West Services, Inc.,
to provide the professional services
necessary to update, print, index
and bind cumulative supplements to
the Codified Ordinances and supplements of individual parts of the Codified Ordinances, including alternative formats and internet updates,
and to provide reviews, comparisons
and updates of Parts IV and VI of
the Codified Ordinances to conform
with amendments made to the Ohio
Revised Code. The effective date of
the Tenth Amendment shall be on or
about September 19, 2009 and continue for a period of one year. The
Clerk may exercise three separate
options to enter into additional
amendments renewing any or all
portions of the Tenth Amendment
for additional one year periods, cancelable upon 30 days written notice
by the Clerk. Payment for services
completed under the Tenth Amendment and any additional amendments shall be from fund numbers
632000-01-010100.
The Clerk is further authorized
during the term of the Tenth Amendment and the terms of any additional amendments, to enter into a separate amendment or amendments to
City Contract No. 60428 as may be
necessary
to
purchase
additional
printings of any or all of the parts
of the Charter and Codified Ordinances, main volumes and/or supplements, binders, inserts and labels.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 16, 2009.
Effective November 23, 2009.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1676-09.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with NetX Internet LLC to provide wireless internet service to Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized to enter
into an Agreement with NetX Internet LLC to provide wireless internet service to Cleveland City Council, including installation, equipment,
management,
maintenance
and repair for a period of three
years, beginning on January 1,
2010. The cost of the agreement
shall be $799.00 per month and
shall be paid from fund number
632000-01-010100.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 16, 2009.
Effective November 23, 2009.

Ord. No. 1677-09.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to
make payment to Barrett Brothers
for publication of a record of legislation book for Cleveland City
Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make a
one-time payment in the amount of
$586.00 to Barrett Brothers for publication of a record of legislation
book for Cleveland City Council.
Said payment shall be made from
fund numbers 632000-01-010100.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 16, 2009.
Effective November 23, 2009.

2171

43
Ord. No. 1678-09.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to make
payment to Iron Mountain Information Management for storage of documents for Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make a
one-time payment in the amount of
$13,201.00 to Iron Mountain Information Management for storage of certain documents for Cleveland City
Council. Said payment shall be made
from fund numbers 632000-01-010100.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 16, 2009.
Effective November 23, 2009.

Ord. No. 1679-09.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 2 of Ordinance No. 161109 passed November 9, 2009 as it pertains to authorizing the Director of
the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement
with Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation for the Fairfax
Computer Learning Program through
the use of Ward 6 Neighborhood
Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1611-09 passed November
9, 2009 is hereby amended to read as
follow:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $18,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1611-09 passed November
9, 2009 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 16, 2009.
Effective November 23, 2009.

44
Ord. No. 1680-09.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Keane and Brady.
An emergency ordinance repealing Ordinance No. 1552-09 passed
October 26, 2009.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Ordinance No. 155209, passed October 26, 2009 is hereby repealed.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 16, 2009.
Effective November 23, 2009.

Ord. No. 1681-09.
By Council Members Kelley, Zone
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. 68710 with Early Morning Software, Inc. to develop a data collection and analysis system of contract
compliance requirements, to include
the various divisions of City government.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 18207, passed April 23, 2007, this Council authorized the Director of Port
Control to enter into Contract No.
68710 with Early Morning Software,
Inc. for the development of a data
collection and analysis system of
contract compliance requirements, including installing, designing, training, implementing, testing, maintaining, technical support, and other
related issues for the various divisions of the Department of Port Control; and
Whereas, the Director of Port Control desires to amend Contract No.
68710 to include the various divisions of City government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into an amendment to Contract No.
68710 with Early Morning Software,
Inc. for the development of a data
collection and analysis system of contract compliance requirements, including installing, designing, training,
implementing, testing, maintaining,
technical support, and other related

The City Record
issues to include the various divisions
of
City
government.
The
amendment shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 52 SF 001, 54 SF 001, 58 SF 001
and other funds appropriated for
this purpose, Request No. 158685.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 16, 2009.
Effective November 23, 2009.

Ord. No. 1682-09.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency ordinance to change
the name of Denison Cemetery to
Brooklyn Centre Burying Ground.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the name of Denison Cemetery shall hereafter be
changed to Brooklyn Centre Burying Ground, and that the Director
of Parks, Recreation and Properties is authorized and directed to
take the necessary action to affect
said name change and to post the
proper signs.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 16, 2009.
Effective November 23, 2009.

Ord. No. 1683-09.
By Council Members Brancatelli and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 599-09,
passed June 1, 2009, relating to the
operation of the Low Interest Loan
and Grant Program and authorizing
contracts under the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 599-09, passed June 1, 2009,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is autho-

2172

November 25, 2009
rized to expend funds from Fund No.
14
SF
035
in
the
amount
of
$2,417,000, Federal HOME Program
funds from Fund No. 19 SF 630 in
the amount of $1,279,763, and UDAG
Repayment Funds in the amount of
$240,000 from Fund No. 19 SF 606 for
the operation of the Low Interest
Loan and Grant Programs, including
all related services. The Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs include Repair-A-Home (RAH), Corrective Action Grant, Afford-A-Home
(AAH), Senior Home Owners Assistance Program (SHAP), Paint Refund Program, Housewarming, Furnace Repair, Home Maintenance Assistance Program (HMAP), American Dream Downpayment Assistance Program, and second mortgage assistance to eligible homeowners.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 599-09, passed June
1, 2009, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 16, 2009.
Effective November 23, 2009.

Ord. No. 1708-09.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to extend the
term of Agreement No. 69179 with
Mita Marketing LLC through December 31, 2009.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized to extend
the term of Agreement No. 69179
with Mita Marketing LLC through
December 31, 2009.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 16, 2009.
Effective November 23, 2009.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

NO MEETINGS

The City Record

November 25, 2009

45

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Economic Security Project for Cleveland Seniors — Grants — various agencies
(O 1549-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161

Agreements
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 1611-09 — Fairfax Computer Learning Program —
Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. (Ward 06 NCF) (O 1679-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2171
Clerk of Council — Mita Marketing LLC (O 1708-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2172
Clerk of Council — Net X Internet — wireless internet service (O 1676-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2171
Demolition/Disposition Initiative — Glenville Development Corp. — Building and Housing
Dept. (Ward(s) 8, 9 NCF) (O 1728-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2158
Dunkin Donuts Development Project — Economic Development (Ward 01 NCF)
(O 1729-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2158

AIDS
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2010 — various agencies — Grants — Ohio Department of
Health (O 1547-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161

Appropriations
Appropriations — ($800,000) — Convention Center Funds (O 1723-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2154
Appropriations — Temporary — January 1, 2010 (O 1722-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2147

Board of Control — Burke Lakefront Airport Division
Sampling and analytical service need management — per Ord. 2103-04 to Science
Applications International Corporation — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 521-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Hangar and ramp space — sublease portion — Contract 62837 per BOC Res. 715-05 —
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 522-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162
Sampling and analytical service need management — per Ord. 2103-04 to Science
Applications International Corporation — Dept. of Port Control
(
` BOC Res. 521-09)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Manholes, precast concrete — per C.O. Sec. 129.26 — all bids rejected — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 520-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Franklin Avenue (Ward 17) — PPN 002-21-010 — AmTrust Bank or Designee Iota Twenty Five,
LLC per Ord. 1561-09 (BOC Res. 534-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2165
West 54th Street, 3580 (Ward 17) — PPN 016-17-060 — HUD/Fannie Mae property — Daryl J.
Anderson (BOC Res. 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2164

Board of Control — Engineering and Construction Division
Concrete requirement contract — ADA curb ramps — per Ord. 450-09 — all bids rejected —
Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 530-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2164

Board of Control — Finance Department
St. Clair Avenue, 10505 — PPN 108-21-001 — Glenville Development Corporation
per Ord. 1165-08, 1551-09 (BOC Res. 535-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2165

2173

The City Record

46

November 25, 2009

Board of Control — Health Division
Elevator repair and maintenance at various health centers — per C.O. Sec. 181.101
to KONE, Inc. — Dept. of Public Health (BOC Res. 532-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2164
Snow and ice removal at heath centers — per C.O. Sec. 181.01 to L & L Landscaping
& Snowplowing, Inc. — Dept. of Public Health (BOC Res. 531-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2164

Board of Control — J. Glen Smith Health Center
Elevator repair and maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to KONE, Inc. — Division of
Health, Dept. of Public Health (BOC Res. 532-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2164

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Franklin Avenue (Ward 17) — PPN 002-21-010 — AmTrust Bank or Designee Iota
Twenty Five, LLC per Ord. 1561-09 (BOC Res. 534-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2165
West 54th Street, 3580 (Ward 17) — PPN 016-17-060 — HUD/Fannie Mae property —
Daryl J. Anderson (BOC Res. 533-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2164

Board of Control — Land Sales
St. Clair Avenue, 10505 — PPN 108-21-001 — Glenville Development Corporation
per Ord. 1165-08, 1551-09 (BOC Res. 535-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2165

Board of Control — Leases
Hangar and ramp space — sublease portion — Contract 62837 per BOC Res. 715-05 —
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 522-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162
Ninth Street parking lots #9 and #10 — utilize for special event —
per C.O. Sec. 183.04 to Standard Parking Corporation — Dept. of Port
Control (BOC Res. 523-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2163

Board of Control — McCafferty Health Center
Elevator repair and maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to KONE, Inc. — Division of
Health, Dept. of Public Health (BOC Res. 532-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2164

Board of Control — Miles Broadway Health Center
Elevator repair and maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to KONE, Inc. — Division of
Health, Dept. of Public Health (BOC Res. 532-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2164

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Air compressors, trailer mounted — per Ord. 902-07, 591-08, 1849-08 to Southeastern
Equipment Co. — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 525-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2163
Cab and chassis, single axle equipped for snowplows — per Ord. 591-08, 1849-08 to
Cleveland Peterbilt, LLC — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 529-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2164
Cab and chassis, tandem axle equipped for snowplows — per Ord. 591-08, 1849-08 to
Cleveland Peterbilt, LLC — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 528-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2164
Cab and chassis with large-sized USV bodies — per Ord. 902-07, 591-08, 1849-08 to Han’s
Freightliner of Cleveland, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 526-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2163
Cab and chassis with sewer cleaner bodies — per Ord. 887-06, 902-07
to Best Equipment Co., Inc. — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 527-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2163
Chevrolet parts and labor — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Patrick O’Brien Jr. Chevrolet, Inc.,
dba Pat O’Brien Chevrolet — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 524-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2163

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Hangar and ramp space — sublease portion — Contract 62837 per
BOC Res. 715-05 — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(BOC Res. 522-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162
Ninth Street parking lots #9 and #10 — utilize for special event — per C.O. Sec. 183.04
to Standard Parking Corporation (BOC Res. 523-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2163
Sampling and analytical service need management — per Ord. 2103-04 to Science
Applications International Corporation — Divisions of Burke Lakefront Airport and
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (BOC Res. 521-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162

2174

November 25, 2009

The City Record

47

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Sampling and analytical service need management — per Ord. 2103-04 to Science
Applications International Corporation — Divisions of Burke Lakefront Airport and
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 521-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162

Board of Control — Public Health Department
Elevator repair and maintenance at various health centers — per C.O. Sec. 181.101
to KONE, Inc. — Division of Health (BOC Res. 532-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2164
Snow and ice removal at heath centers — per C.O. Sec. 181.01 to L & L Landscaping
& Snowplowing, Inc. — Division of Health (BOC Res. 531-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2164

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Air compressors, trailer mounted — per Ord. 902-07, 591-08, 1849-08 to Southeastern
Equipment Co. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 525-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2163
Cab and chassis, single axle equipped for snowplows — per Ord. 591-08, 1849-08 to
Cleveland Peterbilt, LLC — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 529-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2164
Cab and chassis, tandem axle equipped for snowplows — per Ord. 591-08, 1849-08 to
Cleveland Peterbilt, LLC — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 528-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2164
Cab and chassis with large-sized USV bodies — per Ord. 902-07, 591-08, 1849-08 to Han’s
Freightliner of Cleveland, Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 526-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2163
Cab and chassis with sewer cleaner bodies — per Ord. 887-06, 902-07
to Best Equipment Co., Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 527-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2163
Chevrolet parts and labor — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Patrick O’Brien Jr. Chevrolet, Inc.,
dba Pat O’Brien Chevrolet — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 524-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2163
Concrete requirement contract — ADA curb ramps — per Ord. 450-09 — all bids rejected —
Division of Engineering and Construction (BOC Res. 530-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2164

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Manholes, precast concrete — per C.O. Sec. 129.26 — all bids rejected (BOC Res. 520-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
St. Clair Avenue, 10505 — PPN 108-21-001 — Glenville Development Corporation
per Ord. 1165-08, 1551-09 (BOC Res. 535-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2165

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Air compressors, trailer mounted — per Ord. 902-07, 591-08, 1849-08 to Southeastern
Equipment Co. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 525-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2163
Cab and chassis, single axle equipped for snowplows — per Ord. 591-08, 1849-08 to
Cleveland Peterbilt, LLC — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 529-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2164
Cab and chassis, tandem axle equipped for snowplows — per Ord. 591-08, 1849-08 to
Cleveland Peterbilt, LLC — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 528-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2164
Cab and chassis with large-sized USV bodies — per Ord. 902-07, 591-08, 1849-08 to Han’s
Freightliner of Cleveland, Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of
Public Service (BOC Res. 526-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2163
Cab and chassis with sewer cleaner bodies — per Ord. 887-06, 902-07
to Best Equipment Co., Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 527-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2163
Chevrolet parts and labor — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Patrick O’Brien Jr. Chevrolet, Inc.,
dba Pat O’Brien Chevrolet — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 524-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2163
Elevator repair and maintenance at various health centers — per C.O. Sec. 181.101
to KONE, Inc. — Division of Health, Dept. of Public Health (BOC Res. 532-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2164
Snow and ice removal at heath centers — per C.O. Sec. 181.01 to L & L Landscaping
& Snowplowing, Inc. — Division of Health, Dept. of Public Health (BOC Res. 531-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2164

Board of Control — Water Division
Manholes, precast concrete — per C.O. Sec. 129.26 — all bids rejected — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 520-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162

2175

The City Record

48

November 25, 2009

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Manholes, precast concrete — per C.O. Sec. 129.26 — all bids rejected — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 520-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
East 124th Street, 2783, (Ward 6) — Cleveland Green Homes East PL I, owner — appeal heard
on 11/23/2009 (Cal. 09-223) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2166
East 55th Street, 3651, (Ward 12) — J & G Development Corporation, owner and Jennie Hurt,
tenant — appeal reinstated on 11/23/09 (Cal. 09-221) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2166
Franklin Boulevard, 5604, (Ward 17) — Darwin McLellan, owner — appeal heard on 11/23/2009
(Cal. 09-220) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2166
Fulton Road, 3710, (Ward 15) — Sheila Maurer, owner — appeal postponed to 2/1/10 on
11/23/09 (Cal. 09-118) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2166
Pierpont Avenue, 9704-06, (Ward 8) — Vera Payne, owner — appeal postponed to 1/19/10 on
11/23/2009 (Cal. 09-222) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2166
West 157th Street, 4656, (Ward 20) — Dennis Frinzl, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 11/23/09 (Cal. 09-216) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2166
West 25th Street, 1917, (Ward 14) — Tony Iwais, owner, and Wael Ayyad, tenant — appeal
withdrawn on 11/23/2009 (Cal. 09-219) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2166
West 25th Street, 2070, (Ward 14) — United 25th Building, owner — appeal heard on
11/23/2009 (Cal. 09-217) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2166

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Adolpha Avenue, 3280 (a.k.a. 3270 East 65th Street), (Ward 12) — Reginald Williams,
owner — appeal to be heard on 12/7/09 (Cal. 09-229). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2166
Detroit Avenue, 7505, (Ward 17) — Rodney and Anitra Boyt, owners — appeal to be heard on
12/7/09 (Cal. 09-227) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2165
Edgewater Drive, 10433, (Ward 18) — Louis Carlozzi, owner — appeal to be heard on
12/7/09 (Cal. 09-231) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2166
Fleet Avenue, 7310, (Ward 12) — Mukesh Agarwal, owner — appeal to be heard on
12/7/09 (Cal. 09-233) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2166
Mungai, John — appeal to be heard on 12/7/09 (Cal. 09-234) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2166

Bonds
Cleveland Stadium refunding bonds (O 1717-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2134
Core City refunding bond (O 1718-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2140

Building and Housing Department
Demolition/Disposition Initiative — Glenville Development Corp. — agreement
(Ward(s) 8, 9 NCF) (O 1728-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2158

Burke Lakefront Airport
Various Lease agreements for use of Airport — owned space at CHIA & Burke
(O 1544-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161

Cemeteries
Denison Cemetery — change name to — Brooklyn Centre Burying Ground
(O 1682-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2172

City Council
Barrett Brothers — make payment — Record Of Legislation book (O 1677-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2171
Codified Ordinances — Parts IV and VI supplements — update, print, index and bind —
City Contract No. 60428 — West Services (O 1675-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2171
Storage of documents — make payment — Iron Mountain Information Management
(O 1678-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2171

City Clerk
Clerk of Council — agreement — Net X Internet — wireless internet service
(O 1676-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2171

2176

November 25, 2009

The City Record

49

City of Cleveland Bids
Collinwood Recreation Center — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties —
Division of Recreation — per Ord. 597-07 — bid due December 23, 2009
(advertised 11/25/2009 and 12/2/2009) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2167
Duct line, street lighting bases and pull boxes — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 597-07 — bid due December
23, 2009 (advertised 11/25/2009 and 12/2/2009). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2168
Fuel dispensing system maintenance and repair — Department of Public Service —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 686-07 — bid due December 10, 2009
(advertised 11/18/2009 and 11/25/2009) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2167
Health Center Facility upgrades, Bid Package C-Interior Renovations and window
replacement — Department of Public Service — Division of Architecture —
per Ord. 487-07 — bid due December 10, 2009 (advertised 11/18/2009 and 11/25/2009). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2167
Kitchen and dining room renovations at North Point Transitional Men’s Shelter —
Department of Public Service — Division of Architecture — per Ord. 869-08 —
bid due December 9, 2009 (advertised 11/18/2009 and 11/25/2009) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2167
Ridge Road Street Facility wall repair — Department of Public Service —
Division of Architecture — bid due December 9, 2009
(advertised 11/18/2009 and 11/25/2009) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2167

City Planning Commission
Carnegie Ave. (south side) — Cedar Ave. (between East 100 St. & East 106th St.) —
change Use, Area and Height District (Ward 06) (O 1727-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2156
East 106th Pl. — intention to vacate a portion — Service Department (Ward 06)
(R 1415-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162
Live-Work Overlay zoning district — E.34th St., E. 36th St. and St. Clair Ave.
(O 1418-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2166

Clerk of Council
Agreement — Mita Marketing LLC (O 1708-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2172
Agreement — Net X Internet — wireless internet service (O 1676-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2171
Codified Ordinances — Parts IV and VI supplements — update, print, index and bind —
City Contract No. 60428 — West Services (O 1675-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2171
Storage of documents — make payment — Iron Mountain Information Management
(O 1678-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2171

Cleveland Clinic Foundation
East 100th St. and Cedar Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — electrical / teledata cabling
duct banks — Service Department (Ward 06) (O 1050-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2160

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Amend contract 66946 — Air show — increase the leased premises — Cleveland National Air
Show, Inc. — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for Air show (O 761-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2160
Various Lease agreements for use of Airport — owned space at CHIA & Burke
(O 1544-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161

Codified Ordinances
Amend Sect(s) 559.13 & 559.14 — Cultural Gardens (Bruot Gate & Walk to the
Shakespeare Garden and designate the Croatian Garden) (O 1715-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2134
Amend Sect. 625.08 — Criminal Tools (bump keys) (O 1714-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2133
Codified Ordinances — Parts IV and VI supplements — update, print, index and bind —
City Contract No. 60428 — West Services (O 1675-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2171

Collective Bargaining Agreements
2009 Approve fact finders for CWA — collective bargaining — Payband 22a & 33
(O 1721-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2157

Community Development Block Grant Program
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 599-09 — Low Interest Loan and Grant Program —
expend CDBG and Federal Home funds — contract with various agencies —
Community Development Dept. (O 1683-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2172

2177

The City Record

50

November 25, 2009

Community Development Department
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 599-09 — Low Interest Loan and Grant Program — expend CDBG and
Federal Home funds — contract with various agencies (O 1683-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2172
East 70th St., 2226 — PPN 118-22-060 — Land Reutilization Program — John Truett & E. Marie
Truett (Ward 05) (O 1514-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161
Hough Ave. — PPN 119-03-037 / 038 / 039 — Land Reutilization Program — Geraldine Laster
and Bobbie C. Laster (Ward 07) (O 1555-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162
Kelton Ave., 11717 — PPN 120-10-127 — Land Reutilization Program — James Williams (Ward
09) (O 1726-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2155
Larnder Ave., 9606 — PPN 005-27-118 — Land Reutilization Program — Joseph Frank Ponikvar,
Jr. (Ward 18) (O 1516-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161
Public improvement contract for environmental clean — up of Lower Woolen Mills (O 1511-09) . . . . . . . . 2161
St. Clair Ave. — PPN 108-14-009 — Land Reutilization Program — Rania Najjar (Ward
08) (O 1554-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161
W. 37th St., — PPN 007-07-024 / 025 / 026 / 027 / 028 — Land Reutilization Program — Ronald
B. Sarstedt (Ward 14) (O 1532-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2160

Condolences
Arensberg, Mark Steven (R 1743-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131
Brown, Marge J. (R 1742-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131
Eiland, Roy (R 1741-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131
Fallon, Patrick (R 1744-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131
Madison, Theodore (Ted) (R 1745-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131
Miller, Queenie M. (R 1746-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131

Congratulations
ABM Industries, Inc. (R 1747-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131

Contracts
Amend contract 66946 — Air show — increase the leased premises —
Cleveland National Air Show, Inc. — Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport for Air show (O 761-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2160
Clean Ohio Grant — Shaker Associates, LLC — Key Gas Components facility at
1966 East 66th St. (O 1716-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2134
Codified Ordinances — Parts IV and VI supplements — update, print, index and bind —
City Contract No. 60428 — West Services (O 1675-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2171
Emergency Generators Replacement (Various Facilities) Project —
Contract No. 68939 — R. W. Clark Company — (Statement of
Final Acceptance) (F 1740-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 67417 — Unison Consulting, Inc. — support the
airport-wide concessions development(O 1556-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2170
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 67708 with Leader Electric (modify electrical
systems at airport properties) (O 1545-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2169
Personal handheld devices — cellular devices — pager equipment — hardware and software —
Finance Department (O 1709-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2132
Port Control & Utilities Dept. — Amend Contract No. 68710 — Early Morning Software
(develop a data collection and analysis system) (O 1681-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2172
Public improvement — environmental clean-up of Lower Woolen Mills (O 1511-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161
Public improvement — Rehabilitating various Public Service facilities — professional
services (O 1724-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2155
Public Utilities — Exercise option to renew Contract No. 68584 — Kronos Incorporated
(O 1509-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2160
Repeal Ord. No. 1552-09 — Priority Dispatch contract (O 1680-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2172
Utilities Department — Motorola (equipment & maintenance) (O 1539-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161
Utilities Department — replace water mains (O 1538-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161

Consumer Affairs Department
Economic Security Project for Cleveland Seniors — Grants — various agencies
(O 1549-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161

Convention Center
Appropriations — ($800,000) — Convention Center Funds (O 1723-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2154

2178

November 25, 2009

The City Record

51

Easements
Euclid Corridor Project — right-of-way — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority
(GCRTA) — Service Dept. (O 1719-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2144

Economic Development Department
Clean Ohio Grant — Contracts with Shaker Associates, LLC — Key Gas Components
facility at 1966 East 66th St. (O 1716-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2134
Dunkin Donuts Development Project — agreement (Ward 01 NCF) (O 1729-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2158

Encroachments
East 100th St. and Cedar Ave. — right-of-way — electrical / teledata cabling duct banks —
Cleveland Clinic Foundation — Service Department (Ward 06) (O 1050-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2160

Enterprise Funds
Transfer ($3,024,200) within various divisions of the General Fund — ($500,000) within
the Special Revenue Fund — ($45,000) within the Enterprise Fund (O 1720-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2145

Euclid Corridor Transportation Project
Easement — right-of-way — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority (GCRTA) —
Service Dept. (O 1719-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2144

Finance Department
Appropriations — ($800,000) — Convention Center Funds (O 1723-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2154
Appropriations — Temporary — January 1, 2010 (O 1722-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2147
Barrett Brothers — make payment — Record Of Legislation book (O 1677-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2171
Cleveland Stadium refunding bonds (O 1717-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2134
Codified Ordinances — Parts IV and VI supplements — update, print, index and bind —
City Contract No. 60428 — West Services (O 1675-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2171
Core City refunding bond (O 1718-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2140
Financial statement assessment, 2009 — Ohio State Auditor — Taxation Division —
Water Division (O 1748-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131
Master Lease for various types of vehicles & apparatus — Various Divisions in the Depts.
of Public Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Public
Safety (O 1620-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162
Personal handheld devices — cellular devices — pager equipment — hardware and software
(O 1709-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2132
Storage of documents — make payment — Iron Mountain Information Management
(O 1678-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2171
Transfer ($3,024,200) within various divisions of the General Fund —
($500,000) within the Special Revenue Fund — ($45,000) within the
Enterprise Fund (O 1720-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2145

General Funds
Transfer ($3,024,200) within various divisions of the General Fund —
($500,000) within the Special Revenue Fund — ($45,000) within the
Enterprise Fund (O 1720-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2145

Glenville Development Corporation
Demolition/Disposition Initiative — agreement — Building and Housing Dept.
(Ward(s) 8, 9 NCF) (O 1728-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2158

Grants
Amend Sect. 8 of Ord. No. 688-08 — Rehabilitation of East 30th Street — GCRTA
(O 1712-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2133
Apply & Accept Project HEAL (Healthy Eating Active Living Program) —
The Sisters of Charity Foundation (O 1725-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2155
Clean Ohio Grant — Contracts with Shaker Associates, LLC — Key Gas Components facility
at 1966 East 66th St. (O 1716-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2134
Economic Security Project for Cleveland Seniors — various agencies
(O 1549-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161

2179

The City Record

52

November 25, 2009

Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2010 — various agencies — Ohio Department of Health
(O 1547-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161
Immunization Action Plan Program, 2010 — Cuyahoga County Board of Health
(O 1546-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161
Solid Waste Disposal Program, 2010 — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District —
Health Department (O 1713-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2133

Health Department
Apply & Accept Project HEAL (Healthy Eating Active Living Program) — Grant —
The Sisters of Charity Foundation (O 1725-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2155
Economic Security Project for Cleveland Seniors — Grants — various agencies
(O 1549-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2010 — various agencies — Grants — Ohio Department of
Health (O 1547-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161
Immunization Action Plan Program, 2010 — Cuyahoga County Board of Health — Grants
(O 1546-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161
Solid Waste Disposal Program, 2010 — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District — Grants
(O 1713-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2133

Information System Services Division
Personal handheld devices — cellular devices — pager equipment —
hardware and software — Finance Department (O 1709-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2132

Land Reutilization Program
East 70th St., 2226 — PPN 118-22-060 — John Truett & E. Marie Truett (Ward 05)
(O 1514-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161
Hough Ave. — PPN 119-03-037 / 038 / 039 — Geraldine Laster and Bobbie C. Laster
(Ward 07)(O 1555-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162
Kelton Ave., 11717 — PPN 120-10-127 — James Williams (Ward 09) (O 1726-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2155
Larnder Ave., 9606 — PPN 005-27-118 — Joseph Frank Ponikvar, Jr. (Ward 18)
(O 1516-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161
St. Clair Ave. — PPN 108-14-009 — Rania Najjar (Ward 08) (O 1554-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161
W. 37th St. — PPN 007-07-024 / 025 / 026 / 027 / 028 — Ronald B. Sarstedt (Ward 14)
(O 1532-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2160

Lease
Amend contract 66946 — Air show — increase the leased premises —
Cleveland National Air Show, Inc. — Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport for Air show (O 761-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2160

Lease Agreement
Various Lease agreements for use of Airport — owned space at CHIA & Burke
(O 1544-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161

Liquor Permits
Buckeye Rd., 8805 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1134-09 (Ward 04)
(R 1733-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2159
Central Ave., 3337 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1130-09 — (Ward 05)
(R 1731-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2158
East 116th St., 3019 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1138-09 (Ward 04)
(R 1734-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2159
East 140th St., 3258 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 04) (R 1735-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2159
East 156th St., 383 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1140-09 (Ward 11)
(R 1686-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2168
East 185th St., 910 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 11) (R 1685-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2168
Euclid Ave., 2300 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res. 1615-09
(Ward 07) (R 1684-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2168
Griffing Ave., 12914 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 955-09 (Ward 04)
(R 1736-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2160
Harvard Ave., 17426 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 958-09 (Ward 01)
(R 1689-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2169
Madison Ave., 8309 (1st. & 2nd fl.) — withdraw objection to renewal (Ward 17)
(R 1690-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2169

2180

November 25, 2009

The City Record

53

Mayfield Rd., 12414 — transfer of location application (Ward 06) (F 1738-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131
Ohio Ave., 15015 — objection to issuance (Ward 01) (R 1688-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2169
Ridge Rd., 3837 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 1617-09 —
(Ward 16) (R 1737-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2160
St. Clair Ave., 11601-05 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 09) (R 1732-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2159
St. Clair Ave., 18506 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1143-09 (Ward
11) (R 1687-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2168
West 14th St., 2661-69 (1st., fl. , bsmt. & Patio) — TREX (Ward 13) (F 1739-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131

Ohio Department of Public Health
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2010 — various agencies — Grants (O 1547-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Amend Sect(s) 559.13 & 559.14 — Cultural Gardens (Bruot Gate & Walk to the Shakespeare
Garden and designate the Croatian Garden) (O 1715-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2134
Appropriations — ($800,000) — Convention Center Funds (O 1723-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2154
Denison Cemetery — change name to — Brooklyn Centre Burying Ground (O 1682-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2172
Master Lease for various types of vehicles & apparatus — Various Divisions in the Depts.
of Public Service and Public Safety (O 1620-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162

Personnel Department
Amend Sect. 47 of Ord. No. 947-08 — Salary and wage schedules (O 1674-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2170
Approved fact finders for CWA — collective bargaining — Payband 22a & 33 (O 1721-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2157

Port Control Department
Amend contract 66946 — Air show — increase the leased premises — Cleveland National Air
Show, Inc. — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for Air show (O 761-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2160
Utilities Dept. — Amend Contract No. 68710 — Early Morning Software (develop a data
collection and analysis system) (O 1681-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2172
Various Lease agreements for use of Airport — owned space at CHIA & Burke (O 1544-09). . . . . . . . . . . . 2161

Professional Service
Public improvement contracts — Rehabilitating various Public Service facilities
(O 1724-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2155
Utilities Department — design a new pump station in the City of Aurora (O 1540-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161

Public Hearings (Notices)
Live-Work Overlay zoning district — E.34th St., E. 36th St. and St. Clair Ave.
(O 1418-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2166

Public Improvement
Amend Sect. 8 of Ord. No. 688-08 — Rehabilitation of East 30th Street — GCRTA
(O 1712-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2133
Contract for environmental clean-up of Lower Woolen Mills (O 1511-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161
Contracts — Rehabilitating various Public Service facilities — professional services
(O 1724-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2155

Public Utilities Department
Contracts — Motorola (equipment & maintenance) (O 1539-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161
Contracts to replace water mains (O 1538-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 68584 — Kronos Incorporated (O 1509-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2160
Port Control — Amend Contract No. 68710 — Early Morning Software (develop a data
collection and analysis system) (O 1681-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2172
Professional service to design a new pump station in the City of Aurora
(O 1540-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161

Regional Transit Authority
Amend Sect. 8 of Ord. No. 688-08 — Rehabilitation of East 30th Street (O 1712-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2133
Euclid Corridor Project — easement — right-of-way — Service Dept. (O 1719-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2144

2181

The City Record

54

November 25, 2009

Repealed Ordinances & Resolutions
Repeal Ord. No. 1552-09 — Priority Dispatch contract (O 1680-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2172

Resolution of Support
Support Governor Strickland’s plan to balance the budget (R 1730-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2158

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Support Governor Strickland’s plan to balance the budget (R 1730-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2158

Safety Department
Amend Sect. 625.08 — Criminal Tools (bump keys) (O 1714-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2133
Master Lease for various types of vehicles & apparatus — Various Divisions
in the Depts. of Public Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties
(O 1620-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162
Repeal Ord. No. 1552-09 — Priority Dispatch contract (O 1680-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2172

Salaries
Amend Sect. 47 of Ord. No. 947-08 — Salary and wage schedules (O 1674-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2170
Approve fact finders for CWA — collective bargaining — Payband 22a & 33
(O 1721-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2157

State Auditor
Financial statement assessment, 2009 — Finance Department — Taxation Division —
Water Division (O 1748-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131

Service Department
Amend Sect. 8 of Ord. No. 688-08 — Rehabilitation of East 30th Street — GCRTA
(O 1712-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2133
East 100th St. and Cedar Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — electrical / teledata cabling
duct banks — Cleveland Clinic Foundation (Ward 06) (O 1050-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2160
East 106th Pl. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission —
(Ward 06) (R 1415-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162
Emergency Generators Replacement (Various Facilities) Project — Contract No. 68939 —
R. W. Clark Company — (Statement of Final Acceptance) (F 1740-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131
Euclid Corridor Project — easement — right-of-way — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority (GCRTA) (O 1719-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2144
LED traffic bulbs — Traffic Engineering Division (O 1710-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2132
Master Lease for various types of vehicles & apparatus — Various Divisions in the Depts.
of Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Public Safety (O 1620-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162
Public improvement contracts — Rehabilitating various Public Service facilities —
professional services (O 1724-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2155
Salt, rock — Streets Division (O 1711-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2132

Special Revenue Funds
Transfer ($3,024,200) within various divisions of the General Fund — ($500,000) within
the Special Revenue Fund — ($45,000) within the Enterprise Fund
(O 1720-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2145

Stadium
Cleveland Stadium refunding bonds (O 1717-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2134

Statement of Work Acceptance
Emergency Generators Replacement (Various Facilities) Project — Contract No. 68939 —
R. W. Clark Company — (Statement of Final Acceptance) (F 1740-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131

Streets Division
Salt, rock (O 1711-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2132

2182

November 25, 2009

The City Record

55

Street Vacation
East 106th Pl. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service
Department (Ward 06) (R 1415-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162

Taxation Division
Financial statement assessment, 2009 — Ohio State Auditor — Finance Department —
Water Division (O 1748-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131

Traffic Engineering Division
LED traffic bulbs (O 1710-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2132

Ward 1
Dunkin Donuts Development Project — agreement — Economic Development (Ward 01 NCF)
(O 1729-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2158
Eiland, Roy — condolence — (R 1741-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131
Harvard Ave., 17426 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 958-09 — liquor permit
(R 1689-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2169
Ohio Ave., 15015 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 1688-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2169

Ward 3
Brown, Marge J. — condolence (R 1742-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131

Ward 4
Buckeye Rd., 8805 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1134-09 — liquor permit
(R 1733-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2159
East 116th St., 3019 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1138-09 — liquor permit
(R 1734-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2159
East 140th St., 3258 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1735-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2159
Griffing Ave., 12914 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 955-09 — liquor permit
(R 1736-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2160

Ward 5
Amend Sect. 8 of Ord. No. 688-08 — Rehabilitation of East 30th Street — GCRTA (O 1712-09) . . . . . . . . . . 2133
Central Ave., 3337 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1130-09 — liquor permit
(R 1731-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2158
East 70th St., 2226 — PPN 118-22-060 — Land Reutilization Program — John Truett & E. Marie
Truett (O 1514-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161

Ward 6
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 1611-09 — Fairfax Computer Learning Program — agreement — Fairfax
Renaissance Development Corp. (Ward 06 NCF) (O 1679-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2171
Carnegie Ave. (south side) — Cedar Ave. (between East 100 St. & East 106th St.) — change
Use, Area and Height District — City Planning Commission (O 1727-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2156
East 100th St. and Cedar Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — electrical / teledata cabling
duct banks — Cleveland Clinic Foundation — Service Department (O 1050-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2160
East 106th Pl. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service
Department (R 1415-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162
Mayfield Rd., 12414 — transfer of location application — liquor permit (F 1738-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131

Ward 7
Euclid Ave., 2300 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res. 1615-09 —
liquor permit (R 1684-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2168
Hough Ave. — PPN 119-03-037 / 038 / 039 — Land Reutilization Program — Geraldine Laster
and Bobbie C. Laster (O 1555-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2162

Ward 8
Demolition/Disposition Initiative — Glenville Development Corp. — agreement —
Building and Housing Dept. (Ward(s) 8, 9 NCF) (O 1728-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2158
St. Clair Ave. — PPN 108-14-009 — Land Reutilization Program — Rania Najjar (O 1554-09). . . . . . . . . . . . 2161

2183

The City Record

56

November 25, 2009

Ward 9
Demolition/Disposition Initiative — Glenville Development Corp. — agreement —
Building and Housing Dept. (Ward(s) 8, 9 NCF) (O 1728-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2158
Kelton Ave., 11717 — PPN 120-10-127 — Land Reutilization Program — James Williams
(O 1726-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2155
St. Clair Ave., 11601-05 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit
(R 1732-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2159

Ward 11
East 156th St., 383 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1140-09 —
liquor permit (R 1686-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2168
East 185th St., 910 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit
(R 1685-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2168
St. Clair Ave., 18506 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1143-09 —
liquor permit (R 1687-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2168

Ward 13
Live-Work Overlay zoning district — E.34th St., E. 36th St. and St. Clair Ave.
(O 1418-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2166
West 14th St., 2661-69 (1st., fl. , bsmt. & Patio) — TREX — liquor permit
(F 1739-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131

Ward 14
W. 37th St. — PPN 007-07-024 / 025 / 026 / 027 / 028 — Land Reutilization
Program — Ronald B. Sarstedt (O 1532-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2160

:Ward 16
Fallon, Patrick — condolence (R 1744-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131
Ridge Rd., 3837 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 1617-09 —
liquor permit (Ward 16) (R 1737-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2160

Ward 17
Arensberg, Mark Steven — condolence (R 1743-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131
Madison Ave., 8309 (1st. & 2nd fl.) — withdraw objection to renewal —
liquor permit (R 1690-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2169

Ward 18
Larnder Ave., 9606 — PPN 005-27-118 — Land Reutilization Program —
Joseph Frank Ponikvar, Jr. (O 1516-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161

Ward 20
ABM Industries, Inc. — congratulations (R 1747-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131
Madison, Theodore (Ted) — condolence (R 1745-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131
Miller, Queenie M. — condolence (R 1746-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131

Water Division
Financial statement assessment, 2009 — Ohio State Auditor — Finance Department —
Taxation Division (O 1748-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2131

Water Mains
Utilities Department — Contracts to replace water mains (O 1538-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2161

Zoning
Carnegie Ave. (south side) — Cedar Ave. (between East 100 St. & East 106th St.) —
change Use, Area and Height District — City Planning Commission (Ward 06)
(O 1727-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2156
Live-Work Overlay zoning district — E. 34th St., E. 36th St. and St. Clair Ave.
(O 1418-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2166

2184

