The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

March the Fourth, Two Thousand and Nine

Frank G. Jackson
Mayor

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Terrell H. Pruitt
Nathaniel K. Wilkes
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Mamie J. Mitchell
TJ Dow
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Joe Cimperman
Joseph Santiago
Brian J. Cummins
Kevin J. Kelley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
62
62
64
65
66
66
66
66
67
71
72

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..................................................3877 East 189th Street
44122
Nathaniel K. Wilkes ...........................................8410 Vineyard Avenue
44105
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................8323 Pulaski Avenue
44103
Sabra Pierce Scott.................................................1136 East 98th Street
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Roosevelt Coats ....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
44112
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Joe Cimperman..............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Joseph Santiago ...................................................3169 West 14th Street
44109
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Kevin J. Kelley ..............................................6608 Woodhaven Avenue
44144
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Debra Linn Talley, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Anjou Parekh, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNELAND HUMAN RESOURCES – Trudy Hutchinson, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Omayra G. Feliciano, Acting Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James
Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Joe Cimperman.
FAIR CAMPAIGN FINANCE COMMISSION – Chris Warren, C. Ellen Connally, Hillary S.
Taylor.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council
Member ____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; _________, Vice Chair; Daniel Conway, Doris
Honsa, Lisa Camacho.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Laura M. Bala, Chair; Jennifer
Coleman, Vice Chair; Robert N. Brown, Council Member Joe Cimperman, Thomas
Coffey, Robert Jackimowicz; Ari Maron, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John
Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
12A
Judge Emanuella Groves
13A
Judge Larry A. Jones
14B
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Anita Laster Mays
14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore
14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr.
12B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Michael John Ryan
12C
Judge Angela R. Stokes
15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak –
Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4, 2009

Vol. 96

No. 4969

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2009
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority

1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
Coats, Chair; Santiago, Vice Chair;
Conwell, Cummins, Johnson, Mitchell,
Pruitt.

of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at

www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation & Transportation Committee: Kelley, Chair;
Keane, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cleveland, Dow, Mitchell, Westbrook.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Coats, Cummins, Mitchell,
Polensek, Pruitt, Santiago, Zone.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council

WEDNESDAY — Alternating

216 City Hall

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice
Chair; Cummins, Keane, Kelley, Polensek, Santiago, Westbrook, Wilkes.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chair, Westbrook, Vice Chair, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Reed, Zone.

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2006-2009
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property & Recreation Committee: Johnson, Chair; Wilkes, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek,
Pruitt.
9:30 A.M. — Health & Human
Services
Committee:
Brancatelli,
Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair; Conwell, Kelley, Mitchell, Reed, Santiago.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Brady, Chair; Pruitt, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Johnson,
Polensek, Reed, Santiago, Wilkes.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Keane, Vice
Chair; Cimperman, Dow, Pierce Scott,
Reed, Wilkes.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland,
Coats, Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Pierce
Scott, Westbrook.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Pierce
Scott, Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair;
Brady, Cimperman, Cummins, Coats,
Dow, Westbrook, Zone.

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland,
Kelley,
Pierce
Scott,
Polensek.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Kelley,
Mitchell,
Pierce
Scott,
Santiago,
Sweeney, Wilkes.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats, Chair; Pierce Scott, Kelley,
Sweeney, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL

son, Nichols, Fumich, Brown, Interim Director Withers, Acting Director Feliciano and Teresa Stevenson
of Legislative Affairs.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76
prayer was offered by Rev. Jesse
Harris, Chaplain in the Cleveland
Division of Police. Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Brancatelli, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member
Pruitt.
PLAT
File No. 250-09.
Council Member Dow (Ward 7).
Dedication Plat for Connector Street
at Sowinski Avenue and Kosciuszko
Avenue.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning, Public Service. Recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Public Service. Received.
COMMUNICATION
File No. 251-09.
From New Circle Vista, Maximum
Accessible Housing of Ohio — notification of construction and management of residential rental development on East 115th Street. (Ward
9). Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL

______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, March 2, 2009
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cleveland, Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Johnson, Keane,
Kelley, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, Wilkes
and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff; Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer; Valarie J. McCall,
Chief of Government Affairs, Chris
Warren, Chief of Regional Development; Monyka S. Price, Chief of
Education; Maureen Harper, Chief
of Communications; Andrea V. Taylor, Press Secretary; Debra Linn
Talley, Director of Office of Equal
Opportunity; and Directors Triozzi,
Dumas,
Smith,
Wasik,
Carroll,
Flask, Cox, Rush, Rybka, Hutchin-

239

File No. 252-09.
Re: 7147900 — D2, D2X, D3, D3A,
D6 Transfer of Ownership Application — R and K Tavern Investments, Inc. 1st Fl. and Bsmt. 6608-12
Cedar Avenue. (Ward 5). Received.
File No. 253-09.
Re: 238577 — C2 Transfer of Ownership Application — E. 40th Marathon, Inc., 3980 St. Clair Avenue.
(Ward 13). Received.
File No. 254-09.
Re: 0370192 — C2 Additional Class
Application — Badah Enterprise,
Inc., d.b.a. Marathon #1, 4919 Memphis Avenue. (Ward 16). Received.
File No. 256-09.
Re: 3238465 — D2, D2X, D3, D3A,
D6 Transfer of Ownership Application — GMKUT, Inc., d.b.a. LaBoca,
1st Fl. and Bsmt and Patio, 5800,
5806, 5808, and 5810 Detroit Avenue.
(Ward 17). Received.

The City Record

4
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res.
Res.
Res.
Res.
son.
Res.
Res.

No.
No.
No.
No.

257-09—Mattie J. McClain.
258-09—Emma Tonti.
259-09—Catherine Stewart.
260-09 — Charlie Mae Wil-

No. 261-09—Willis Eucker.
No. 262-09—Dorthy Cursis.

CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No.
gomery.
Res. No.
Res. No.
Res. No.

263-09 — Eleanor Mont264-09—Addie Palecek.
265-09—Erma Pugh.
266-09—Stella R. Miller.

Group, Inc. dba Able Fence & Guard
Rail for fencing and gates, including labor and materials for repair
and installation, if necessary, for
the various divisions of the Department of Port Control, for an additional year at an estimated cost of
$325,000, for the Department of Port
Control. This ordinance constitutes
the additional legislative authority
required by Ordinance No. 406-07 to
exercise this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control,
Finance, Law; Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.

RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 267-09—Rev. Donald Cozzens, Ph.D.
Res. No. 268-09 — Mary Ellen Kenneley Czelusniak.
Res. No. 269-09 — Judge John J.
Donnelly.
Res. No. 270-09 — Eileen Murphy
Mullaly.
COMMEMORATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 271-09—Joseph E. Coury.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 233-09.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise an option to renew Contract
No. 67062 with Able Contracting
Group, Inc. dba Able Fence & Guard
Rail for fencing and gates, including labor and materials for repair
and installation, if necessary, for
the various divisions of the Department of Port Control.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 406-07, passed April
23, 2007, 2007, the Director of Port
Control entered into Contract No.
67062 with Able Contracting Group,
Inc. dba Able Fence & Guard Rail
for fencing and gates, including
labor and materials for repair and
installation, if necessary, for the
various divisions of the Department
of Port Control; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 406-07 requires further legislation before
exercising the option to renew on
these contracts; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the option to renew Contract
No. 67062 with Able Contracting

Ord. No. 234-09.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise an option to renew Contract
Nos. 67561 and 67619 with AmSan
LLC dba AmSan and Graham Enterprise dba Aries Distribution for janitorial maintenance and cleaning
supplies, all items, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 192-07, passed March
12, 2007, the Director of Port Control entered into Contract Nos.
67561 and 67619 with AmSan LLC
dba AmSan and Graham Enterprise
dba Aries Distribution for janitorial maintenance and cleaning supplies, all items, for the various divisions of the Department of Port
Control; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 192-07 requires further legislation before
exercising the option to renew on
these contracts; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to exercise the
option to renew Contract Nos. 67561
and 67619 with AmSan LLC dba
AmSan and Graham Enterprise dba
Aries
Distribution
for
janitorial
maintenance and cleaning supplies,
all items, for the various divisions of
the Department of Port Control for
an additional year at an estimated
cost of $147,144, for the Department
of Port Control. This ordinance constitutes the additional legislative
authority required by Ordinance No.
192-07 to exercise this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control,
Finance, Law; Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.

240

March 4, 2009
Ord. No. 236-09.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise an option to renew Contract
No. 67442 with Alitalia Contractor’s
Inc., dba Creative Concrete Construction Co. for making the public
improvement of repairing and maintaining runways, taxiways, ramps,
roads, and other concrete surfaces
for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control.
Whereas, the authority of under
Ordinance No. 408-07, passed June 4,
2007, the Director of Port Control
entered into Contract No. 67442 with
Alitalia Contractor’s Inc., dba Creative Concrete Construction Co. for
making the public improvement of
repairing and maintaining runways,
taxiways, ramps, roads, and other
concrete surfaces, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 408-07 requires further legislation before exercising the option to renew on these
contracts; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the option to renew Contract
No. 67442 with Alitalia Contractor’s
Inc., dba Creative Concrete Construction Co. for making the public improvement of repairing and
maintaining
runways,
taxiways,
ramps, roads, and other concrete
surfaces, for the various divisions
of the Department of Port Control,
for an additional year at an estimated cost of $170,000, for the Department of Port Control. This ordinance constitutes the additional
legislative authority required by
Ordinance No. 408-07 to exercise
this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Aviation
and
Transportation,
City
Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 237-09.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 4615 – 4801 Chester
Avenue to Transaction Realty, or its
designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, adminis-

March 4, 2009
tered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real
property, more fully described below, to Transaction Realty, or its
designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
Ward Bakery Site – Lot 1, part of
Permanent Parcel No. 104-31-016
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Lot “1”
in the Plat of Lot Split prepared for
the City of Cleveland as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume
,
Page
of Cuyahoga County Map
Records also being part of Parcel
“A” in the Plat of Lot Consolidation
for City of Cleveland of part of
Original 10 acre lot No. 96, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 320, Page 73 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records, and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning at a Drill Hole found
in a Stone Monument at the intersection of the centerline of Chester
Avenue 86 feet wide with the easterly right-of-way line of East 40th
Street 99 feet wide; thence North 81°56'- 00" East a distance of 444.89
feet along the centerline of said
Chester Avenue to a point therein;
thence North 08°- 09'- 43" West a
distance of 40.00 feet to a 5/8" Iron
Pin with yellow cap set in the
northerly right-of-way line of said
Chester Avenue, said point also
being the southeast corner of a parcel of land conveyed to Sunny Properties, Ltd. by deed dated July 31,
1996 and recorded in Volume 9607435, Page 49 of Cuyahoga County
Deed Records and being the True
Place of Beginning of the parcel
herein described; thence continuing
North 08°- 09'- 43" West a distance
of 172.00 feet along the easterly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to said
Sunny Properties, Ltd. to a 5/8" Iron
Pin with yellow cap set in the
southerly line of a parcel of land
conveyed to Mark J. Sudduth and
Brent K. Young by deed dated
December 2, 1992 and recorded in
Volume 92-10984, Page 52 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records; thence
North 81°- 56'- 00" East a distance
of 34.50 feet along the southerly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to said
Mark J. Sudduth and Brent K.
Young to a 5/8" Iron Pin with yellow cap set therein; thence South
08°- 09'- 43" East a distance of 96.00
feet to a 5/8" Iron Pin with yellow
cap set; thence North 81°- 56'- 00"
East a distance of 37.50 feet to a
5/8" Iron Pin with yellow cap set;
thence South 08°- 09'- 43" East a distance of 76.00 feet to a 5/8" Iron Pin
with yellow cap set in the norther-

The City Record
ly right-of-way line of said Chester
Avenue; thence South 81°- 56'- 00"
West a distance of 72.00 feet along
the northerly right-of-way line of
said Chester Avenue to the True
Place of Beginning, containing 0.202
acres (8,784 sq. ft.) of land according to a survey prepared by Boland
&
O’Donnell
Surveys
L.L.C.,
by
Joseph F. O’Donnell, Jr., P.S. Registered Professional Surveyor No. 7731,
Dated February of 2009, be the same
more or less but subject to all legal
highways and easements.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 238-09.
By Council Member Wilkes.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 3754 East 93rd Street
to Leonard Johnson.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and

241

5
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Leonard Johnson.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance is more fully described as
follows:
P. P. No. 133-25-010
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being Sublot No
9 in Edwin Carter’s Allotment of a
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 448 in said City Said Sublot
No 9 has a frontage of 40 feet on
the Westerly side of East 93rd
Street (formerly Woodland Hills
Avenue) and extends back 125 feet
deep, as per plat of said Allotment
recorded in. Volume 7 of Maps, Page
14 of Cuyahoga County Records,
excepting therefrom 10 feet taken
from the front thereof for the widening of said East 93rd Street as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

6
Ord. No. 239-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
Bonds in the maximum principal
amount of $1,040,000 for the purpose
of providing funds for the improvement, acquisition, construction,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, renovation, furnishing and equipment of
the Cleveland Convention Center
and to pay all expenses incurred in
connection with the issuance of the
Bonds; to authorize agreements with
respect to the Bonds; and to authorize the issuance of Notes in anticipation of such Bonds.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed One
Million
Forty
Thousand
Dollars
($1,040,000) (the “Bonds”) to finance
the
cost
of
certain
permanent
improvements described in Section 1;
and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is twenty (20)
years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms and provisions for the issuance thereunder of unvoted general
obligations of the City and the General Bond Ordinance was passed in
contemplation of this Ordinance and
other ordinances authorizing the
issuance of bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to pay the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1, which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed One Million Forty Thousand
Dollars ($1,040,000) for the purpose
of providing funds to improve, acquire, construct, reconstruct, rehabilitate, renovate, equip and furnish
the Cleveland Convention Center,
together with all preliminary associated research, planning and development and all necessary and incidental appurtenances in all cases,
including the acquisition of any
required real estate and interests in
real estate and to pay all expenses
incurred in connection with the
issuance of the Bonds, including any
financing costs within the meaning

The City Record
of Revised Code Section 133.01(K),
and such other costs of the foregoing permanent improvements that
may be financed with the proceeds
of
securities
as
permitted
by
Revised Code Section 133.15(B) and
as otherwise permitted by law; and
to authorize the issuance of notes in
anticipation of such Bonds.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance in the principal amount
and for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated “Convention Center Bonds,
Series 2009”. The Bonds shall be
issued in one lot as fully registered
Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or
any integral multiple thereof. The
Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated their
date of issuance, or such other date,
but not later than December 31,
2009, specified in the certificate of
award providing for the final terms
of the Bonds and the sale of the
bonds and signed by the Director of
Finance in accordance with this
Ordinance
(the
“Certificate
of
Award”). The Bonds shall bear
interest at the rate or rates per year
specified
in
the
Certificate
of
Award; provided that if all the
Bonds bear interest at the same rate
per year, then such rate shall not
exceed eight percent (8%) per year,
and if the Bonds bear interest at
more than one rate per year, then
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed seven and one-half percent
(7.5%) per year. Interest on the
Bonds shall be payable, until the
principal amount is paid, semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of
each year or on the days specified
in the Certificate of Award as the
dates on which interest on the
Bonds shall be payable (the “Interest
Payment
Dates”),
beginning
June 1, 2009 or on such other Interest Payment Date specified in the
Certificate of Award as the first
Interest Payment Date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor, the Director of Finance may
determine
in
the
Certificate
of
Award that it is in the best interests of the City to elect that for
some or all of the Bonds be issued
as “Build America Bonds,” pursuant
to the provisions of Section 1531 of
P.L. 111-5, the “American Recovery
and Reinvestment Act of 2009,”
amending Section 54AA of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended (the “Code”). If the Bonds are
issued as “Build America Bonds,”
the Bonds shall bear interest at the
rate or rates per year specified in
the Certificate of Award; provided
that if all the Build America Bonds
bear interest at the same rate per
year, then such rate shall not
exceed nine percent (9%) per year,
and if the Build America Bonds bear
interest at more than one rate per
year, then the weighted average of
such rates (taking into account the
principal amount and maturity of
each Build America Bond to which

242

March 4, 2009
a rate applies) shall not exceed
eight and one-half percent (8.5%)
per year.
The Bonds shall mature on December 1 in twenty (20) substantially
equal annual installments, beginning December 1, 2010, or according
to the schedule set forth in the Certificate of Award, provided that (i)
each principal payment shall occur
on an Interest Payment Date, (ii)
the first principal payment on the
Bonds shall be no earlier than
December 1, 2009 and no later than
August 1, 2011, (iii) the final maturity date of the Bonds shall be no
later than twenty (20) years from
that date which is twelve months
prior to the first date on which provision for payment of principal is
made, and (iv) the principal amount
thereof shall be payable in annual
installments such that the total principal and interest payments on the
Bonds in any fiscal year in which
principal is payable is not more
than three times the amount of
those payments in any other fiscal
year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on
which
the
principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys, to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption obligation) of
the City for any Term Bonds. That
option shall be exercised by the
City on or before the forty-fifth
(45th) day preceding the applica-

March 4, 2009
ble Mandatory Redemption Date,
by furnishing the Escrow Agent a
certificate, signed by the Registrar,
setting forth the extent of the credit to be applied with respect to the
then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement. If
the certificate is not timely furnished to the Escrow Agent, the
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption obligation) shall not be reduced. A credit against the then current Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption obligation) also
shall be received by the City for
any Term Bonds which prior thereto have been redeemed (other than
through
the
operation
of
the
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements) or purchased
for cancellation and canceled by
the Registrar, to the extent not
applied theretofore as a credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and corresponding mandatory redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole or in
part on any date, in integral multiples of $5,000, on the optional
redemption dates and at the redemption prices (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount
redeemed) specified in the Certificate of Award, plus, in each case,
accrued interest to the redemption
date. The first optional redemption
date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment Date, and the highest redemption price shall not be greater than
102% of the principal amount redeemed plus accrued interest to the
redemption date. Based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may determine
in the Certificate of Award that it
is in the best interests of the City
for some or all of the Bonds not to
be callable prior to their stated
maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar. That notice shall specify
the redemption date and the princi-

The City Record
pal amount of each maturity of
Bonds to be redeemed, and shall be
given at least forty-five (45) days
prior to the redemption date or such
shorter period as shall be acceptable
to the Registrar. In the event that
notice of redemption shall have been
given by the Registrar to the registered owners as hereinafter provided, there shall be deposited with the
Registrar on or prior to the redemption date, funds which, in addition
to any other moneys available therefor and held by the Registrar, will
be sufficient to redeem at the
redemption price thereof, plus interest accrued to the redemption date,
all of the redeemable Bonds for
which notice of redemption has been
given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided
in the Certificate of Award, the City
may elect to purchase Bonds called
for optional redemption in lieu of
redeeming those Bonds. That election shall be exercised by written
direction
from
the
Director
of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. That written direction shall state whether all or less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased by the City in lieu of
redemption, shall identify the Bonds
to be purchased by their maturity
date and shall specify the principal
amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased in lieu of redemption, the
amount of each maturity to be purchased shall be in amounts of $5,000
or integral multiples of $5,000. Any
Bonds called for optional redemption that are not to be purchased
shall be redeemed in accordance
with their redemption provisions.
The purchase price of the Bonds
to be purchased in lieu of redemption shall be equal to the principal
of, any accrued but unpaid interest
on, and any premium that would
have been payable on the Bonds on
the redemption date if the Bonds
had
been
optionally
redeemed
instead of being purchased. No
notice of the purchase in lieu of
redemption is required to be given
to the owners of the Bonds in addition to the notice of redemption
required by this Ordinance. The
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying agent shall not purchase Bonds
if sufficient moneys have not been
deposited with the Escrow Agent or
Registrar, as paying agent, by the
City for the purpose. On or prior to
the scheduled date for optional
redemption, the City may rescind its
direction to purchase the Bonds in
lieu of redemption by written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar and the Escrow Agent. In
the event that the direction to purchase is rescinded, the Bonds shall
be redeemed on the redemption date
set forth in the notice of redemption
delivered to the owners of the Bonds
and in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than

243

7
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as though it were a separate
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption. then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption (or such period specified in the Certificate of Award), to
the registered owner of each Bond
subject to redemption in whole or in
part
at
the
registered
owner’s
address shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at
the close of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing
and to any municipal bond insurance company that has issued a policy insuring some or all of the
Bonds. Failure to receive notice by
mail or any defect in that notice
regarding any Bond, however, shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any
Bond.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph, the Bonds and portions
thereof called for redemption shall
become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption of all of the Bonds and portions
thereof to be redeemed, including
interest accrued to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail, then from and after the

8
redemption date those Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall cease to bear interest and
no longer shall be considered to be
outstanding. If that money shall not
be so available on the redemption
date, or that notice shall not have
been deposited in the mail, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners and shall be
paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those
Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent.
Principal
shall
be
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
date provided in the Agreement
authorized in Section 3 (the “Record
Date”).
Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are held
by a Depository in a book entry system (as described in Section 3), debt
charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the
United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance, except for the third paragraph of Section 13(a) (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 (pertaining generally to the periods during which the City is not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), will apply
to the Bonds. Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance
is included as a part of this Ordinance as fully as if restated in this
Ordinance. Words and terms not otherwise defined in this Ordinance
shall have the same meaning as set
forth in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by
the City’s Director of Finance. In
accordance with Section 9.96 of the

The City Record
Revised Code and the foregoing
requirement that each Bond bear the
manual signature of an authorized
officer of the Trustee, either or both
of the signatures of the City’s Mayor
or of its Director of Finance may be
a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may
be a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the
Director of Law shall prepare the
Bonds and shall endorse thereon his
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his manual or facsimile
signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Registrar”). The Escrow Agent shall also act as paying
agent for the Bonds so long as the
Bonds are held in a book entry system. The Director of Finance shall
sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, an agreement
among the City, the Registrar and
the Escrow Agent (the “Agreement”), approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, providing for services relating to the
registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of the Bonds on terms that
are approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City. That
approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Agreement by the Director of Finance.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
Agreement from the proceeds of the
Bonds to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). The person in whose name a
Bond is registered on the Bond Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form sat-

244

March 4, 2009
isfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
Ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond rep-

March 4, 2009
resenting each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Bonds and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance, the written advice
of a financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 20 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase
the Bonds, including: the principal
amount of the Bonds, final purchase
price (which shall be not less than
97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of
delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal installments are payable (at

The City Record
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Bonds (if different from those set
forth in Section 2) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance
to be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest
of the City to establish the terms
and requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, procedures,
and conditions for the delivery of
the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices
and certificates, to cause a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Bonds
to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and
other documents and instruments
and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated
by this Ordinance and to take all
steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement between the
City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director
of Law, setting forth the terms and
conditions on which the City agrees
to sell the Bonds and the Original
Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds
on terms consistent with this Ordinance and not substantially adverse
to the City and that are approved by
the Director of Finance on behalf of
the City, all of which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing
of the Bond Purchase Agreement or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement
by
the
Director
of
Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in
this Ordinance and as may be provided in or pursuant to the Certificate of Award, are in the best interest of the City and in compliance
with all legal requirements.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B), Revised Code, the Director of Finance
may combine the Bonds with other
bonds into a single consolidated
issue of bonds for purposes of their
sale as a single issue to be designated
“Various
Purpose
General
Obligation Bonds, Series 2009” or
such other designation as may be
set forth in the Certificate of Award.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is hereby levied

245

9
on all the taxable property in the
City, in addition to all other taxes,
a direct tax annually during the
period the Bonds are outstanding, in
an amount sufficient to provide for
the payment of that interest, when
and as the same shall fall due, and
also to discharge the principal of
the Bonds at maturity, which tax
shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by
Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of those years are certified, extended and collected. The
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as provided pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance and those funds, together
with the interest collected on the
same, shall be irrevocably pledged
for the payment of principal of and
interest on the Bonds when and as
the same fall due; provided, however, that, subject to the provisions of
Section 8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in each year to the extent
that revenues are available from
other sources for the payment of the
Bonds and are appropriated for such
purpose, the amount of such tax
shall be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25 and 5705.51 of the
Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds
are issued. Accrued interest and any
premium received from the sale of
the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund to be
applied to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of

10
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by, an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation or such other
qualified organization, to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent deter-

The City Record
mined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance for unclaimed funds held by
a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment
of
any
Bond
as
described in Section 17(a) of the
General Bond Ordinance, the moneys
held pursuant to this Section shall
be held and paid as provided in said
Section 17(a) for unclaimed funds
held by a Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purposes set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed One Million
Forty
Thousand
Dollars
($1,040,000) (the “Notes”) upon the
direction of the Director of Finance
to be set forth in a certificate providing for the final terms of the
Notes and the sale of the Notes and
signed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
Section 10. Term of the Notes. The
Notes shall bear interest at such
rate, not exceeding seven percent
(7%) per year, as may be fixed by
the Director of Finance of the City
in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall
be
dated
their
date
of
issuance; shall mature on the date
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five (5) years from such date of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of the financial
advisor of the City, determines that
it is in the best interest of the City
in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not
be redeemable for a period which
ends no later than the date which is
two (2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated “Convention Center Bond
Anticipation
Notes,
Series
2009”;
shall be issued in such numbers and
denominations as may be requested
by the Note Purchaser (hereinafter
defined); and shall be issued in
fully registered form (which may be
in a book entry only system) in
denominations of $5,000 or integral
multiples thereof. Interest shall be
payable semi-annually on the dates
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award; provided that if the Notes
mature on or before the end of the
twelfth
(12th) month
following
their date of issuance, interest on
the Notes shall be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note Registrar”); provided that the
Escrow Agent also shall act as paying agent for the Notes so long as
the Notes are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the
“Note Registrar Agreement”) provid-

246

March 4, 2009
ing for services relating to the registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of Notes on terms that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City. That approval
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Note Registrar
Agreement
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes
to the extent available and then
from other money lawfully available
and appropriated or to be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this Ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any

March 4, 2009
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
Ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B), Revised Code, the Director of Finance
may combine the Notes with other
bond anticipation notes of the City
into a single consolidated issue of
notes for purposes of their sale as
a single issue to be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation
Bond
Anticipation
Notes,
Series
2009.” The Notes shall contain a
summary
statement
of
purposes
encompassing the purpose for which
the Notes are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 11. Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
express upon their face the purpose
for which they are issued and that
they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Each
Note
shall
be
authenticated by the manual signature of an authorized officer of the
Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance. In accordance with Section
9.96 of the Revised Code and the
foregoing requirement that each
Note bear the manual signature of
an authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or of its Director
of Finance may be a facsimile. The
Notes shall bear the seal of the City,
which seal may be a facsimile seal.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s
Charter, the Director of Law shall
prepare the Notes and shall endorse
thereon his approval of the form and
correctness thereof by his manual or
facsimile signature.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note
Purchaser”) in the principal amount
set forth in a certificate of award to
be executed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds and any excess funds result-

The City Record
ing from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged,
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes.
Said tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of said year are certified, extended and collected. Said
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from said tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, and those funds, together
with the interest collected on the
same, shall be irrevocably pledged
for the payment of the principal and
interest of the Notes or the Bonds in
anticipation
of
which
they
are
issued, when and as the same falls
due; provided, however, that in each
year to the extent that revenues are
available from other sources for the
payment of the Notes and Bonds and
are appropriated for such purpose,
the amount of such direct tax upon
all of the taxable property in the
City may be reduced by the amount
of such revenues so available and
appropriated.
Section 15. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a
disclosure document (each, an “Official Statement”) is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
sale of the Notes or the Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or
the Bonds, as the case may be, and
any necessary supplements and to
authorize the use and distribution of
each Official Statement and any supplements. The Mayor and the Director of Finance are authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in
their official capacities each Official
Statement and any supplements approved by them. Those officers are,
and each of them is, authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements as may,
in their judgment, be necessary or
appropriate. Those officers are also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final”
by the City within the meaning of
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”).
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for services for the
production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and
electronic means.

247

11
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as
the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
under the SEC Rule, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information and operating data and
notices, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of the SEC
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to prepare, or cause to be prepared,
and to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Notes or the Bonds, as the ease
may be, in accordance with the SEC
Rule.
The
performance
of
that
agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual appropriation to meet costs the
City would be required to incur to
perform it. The Director of Finance
is further authorized and directed to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Federal Tax Covenants.
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the Notes
and the Bonds in such manner and
to such extent as may be necessary
so that (a) the Notes and the Bonds
will not (i) constitute private activity bonds, arbitrage bonds or hedge
bonds under Sections 141, 148 or 149
of the Code, (ii) be treated other
than as bonds to which Section
103(a) of the Code applies, or (iii)
be treated other than as bonds to
which Section 54AA of the Code
applies, in the event the City should
elect pursuant to Section 54AA of
the Code to have the Notes and the

12
Bonds treated as “Build America
Bonds,” and (b) the interest thereon
will not be treated as an item of tax
preference under Section 57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds (other than “Build
America Bonds”) to be and to
remain excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, (b)
it will not take or authorize to be
taken
any
actions
that
would
adversely affect that exclusion, if
applicable, and (c) it, or persons
acting for it, will, among other acts
of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the Notes and the Bonds to
the governmental purpose of the
borrowing, (ii) restrict the yield on
investment property acquired with
those proceeds, (iii) make timely
and adequate payments to the federal
government,
(iv) maintain
books and records and make calculations and reports, and (v) refrain
from certain uses of those proceeds,
and,
as
applicable,
of
property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of
that interest under the Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds (other than “Build
America Bonds”) from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, an election under
Section 54AA of the Code to treat
some or all of the Notes and the
Bonds as “Build America Bonds,” or
any of the elections provided for in
Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or
available under Section 148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring;
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting
compliance
with
requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense of such
compliance,
reducing
the
rebate
amount or payments or penalties, or
making
payments
of
special
amounts in lieu of making computations to determine, or paying,
excess earnings as rebate, or obviating those amounts or payments, as
determined by that officer, which

The City Record
action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the Notes and the
Bonds, and (c) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes and the
Bonds, setting forth the reasonable
expectations of the City regarding
the amount and use of all the proceeds of the Notes and the Bonds,
the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they are based, and
other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 19. Bond Insurance and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain a
commitment
for
municipal
bond
insurance issued by a nationally recognized municipal bond insurance
company
insuring
the
payment
when due of the principal of and
interest on all or any portion of the
Bonds, request a rating on the
Bonds from one or more nationally
recognized rating organizations, and
do any and all things and take any
and all actions required to secure a
policy of municipal bond insurance
and/or a rating or ratings on the
Bonds including, but not limited to,
the entering into of agreements on
behalf of the City necessary to
secure a policy of municipal bond
insurance. Those agreements may
be in separate documents or included in a Bond Purchase Agreement,
a registrar agreement or a Certificate of Award, or any combination,
and contain terms not materially
inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure that insurance or
obtain those ratings is authorized
and approved, and the Director of
Finance is authorized to provide for
the payment of any such amounts
from the proceeds of the Bonds to
the extent available and otherwise
from any other funds lawfully available that are appropriated or shall
be appropriated for that purpose.
Section 20. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial
advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required
by this Ordinance to be determined
by the Director of Finance. The
Director of Finance may rely on the
written advice of any financial advisor so retained. Any financial advisor employed under the authority of
this Ordinance shall be disinterested in the transaction and be independent of the Original Purchaser or
any other party interested in the
transaction.
Section 21. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance, were taken, and

248

March 4, 2009
that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in those formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 22. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required by law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections
28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 23. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 24. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 25. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the
City provided for in this Ordinance
are made by the voluntary act of the
City under its lawful authority,
including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or con-

March 4, 2009
tracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 26. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 240-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
Bonds in the maximum principal
amount of $6,220,000 for the purpose
of providing funds for improving
buildings and structures for providing for the discharge of governmental finctions and services otherwise benefiting the public safety,
health and welfare and to pay all
expenses
incurred
in
connection
with the issuance of the Bonds; to
authorize agreements with respect
to the Bonds; and to authorize the
issuance of Notes in anticipation of
such Bonds.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Six Million Two Hundred Twenty Thousand
Dollars
($6,220,000) (the
“Bonds”) to finance the cost of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is twenty (20)
years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance thereunder of unvoted general obligations of the City and the
General Bond Ordinance was passed
in contemplation of this Ordinance
and other ordinances authorizing
the issuance of bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to pay the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Sec-

The City Record
tion 1, which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Six Million Two Hundred
Twenty Thousand Dollars ($6,220,000)
for the purpose of providing funds
for constructing, reconstructing, rehabilitating, installing, renovating,
enlarging and otherwise improving
buildings and structures and providing for the discharge of governmental functions and services otherwise benefiting the public safety,
health and welfare, including facilities in, of and for the City Hall,
police stations, fire stations, service
stations, centers and other public
facilities, including parking and
other surface transportation facilities, and the provision of necessary
fixtures, furnishings, equipment, including information technology equipment relating to police and other
governmental
functions,
appurtenances, utilities, and site improvements for such purposes, and for the
purpose of paying all expenses
incurred in connection with the
issuance of the Bonds, including any
financing costs within the meaning
of Revised Code Section 133.01(K),
and such other costs of the foregoing permanent improvements that
may be financed with the proceeds
of
securities
as
permitted
by
Revised Code Section 133.15(B) and
as otherwise permitted by law; and
to authorized the issuance of notes
in anticipation of such Bonds.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance in the principal amount
and for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated “Public Facilities Improvement Bonds, Series 2009.” The Bonds
shall be issued in one lot as fully
registered Bonds in denominations
of $5,000 or any integral multiple
thereof. The Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director
of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated their
date of issuance, or such other date,
but not later than December 31,
2009, specified in the certificate of
award providing for the final terms
of the Bonds and the sale of the
bonds and signed by the Director of
Finance in accordance with this
Ordinance
(the
“Certificate
of
Award”). The Bonds shall bear
interest at the rate or rates per year
specified
in
the
Certificate
of
Award; provided that if all the
Bonds bear interest at the same rate
per year, then such rate shall not
exceed eight percent (8%) per year,
and if the Bonds bear interest at
more than one rate per year, then
the weighted average of such rates

249

13
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed seven and one-half percent
(7.5%) per year. Interest on the
Bonds shall be payable, until the
principal amount is paid, semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of
each year or on the days specified
in the Certificate of Award as the
dates on which interest on the
Bonds shall be payable (the “Interest
Payment
Dates”),
beginning
June 1, 2009 or on such other Interest Payment Date specified in the
Certificate of Award as the first
Interest Payment Date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor, the Director of Finance may
determine
in
the
Certificate
of
Award that it is in the best interests of the City to elect that some
or all of the Bonds be issued as
“Build America Bonds,” pursuant to
the provisions of Section 1531 of P.L.
111-5, the “American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act of 2009,” amending Section 54AA of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 as amended
(the “Code”). If the Bonds are issued
as “Build America Bonds,” the Bonds
shall bear interest at the rate or
rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award; provided that if
all the Build America Bonds bear
interest at the same rate per year,
then such rate shall not exceed then
such rate shall not exceed nine percent (9%) per year, and if the Build
America Bonds bear interest at more
than one rate per year, then the
weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Build
America Bond to which a rate
applies) shall not exceed eight and
one-half percent (8.5%) per year.
The Bonds shall mature on December 1 in twenty (20) substantially equal annual installments,
beginning December 1, 2010, or
according to the schedule set forth
in the Certificate of Award, provided that (i) each principal payment
shall occur on an Interest Payment
Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be no earlier than December 1, 2009 and no
later than August 1, 2011, (iii) the
final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than twenty (20)
years from that date which is
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount
thereof
shall
be
payable in annual installments such
that the total principal and interest
payments on the Bonds in any fiscal year in which principal is
payable is not more than three times
the amount of those payments in
any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on
which
the
principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather

14
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the “Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a) Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys, to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and corresponding mandatory re-

The City Record
demption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole or in
part on any date, in integral multiples of $5,000, on the optional
redemption dates and at the redemption prices (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount
redeemed) specified in the Certificate of Award, plus, in each case,
accrued interest to the redemption
date. The first optional redemption
date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment Date, and the highest redemption price shall not be greater than
102%
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed plus accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor, the Director of Finance may
determine
in
the
Certificate
of
Award that it is in the best interests of the City for some or all of
the Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar. That notice shall specify
the redemption date and the principal amount of each maturity of
Bonds to be redeemed, and shall be
given at least forty-five (45) days
prior to the redemption date or such
shorter period as shall be acceptable
to the Registrar. In the event that
notice of redemption shall have been
given by the Registrar to the registered owners as hereinafter provided, there shall be deposited with the
Registrar on or prior to the redemption date, funds which, in addition
to any other moneys available therefor and held by the Registrar, will
be sufficient to redeem at the
redemption price thereof, plus interest accrued to the redemption date,
all of the redeemable Bonds for
which notice of redemption has been
given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided
in the Certificate of Award, the City
may elect to purchase Bonds called
for optional redemption in lieu of
redeeming those Bonds. That election shall be exercised by written
direction
from
the
Director
of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. That written direction shall state whether all or less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased by the City in lieu of
redemption, shall identify the Bonds
to be purchased by their maturity
date and shall specify the principal
amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased in lieu of redemption, the

250

March 4, 2009
amount of each maturity to be purchased shall be in amounts of $5,000
or integral multiples of $5,000. Any
Bonds called for optional redemption that are not to be purchased
shall be redeemed in accordance
with their redemption provisions.
The purchase price of the Bonds
to be purchased in lieu of redemption shall be equal to the principal
of, any accrued but unpaid interest
on, and any premium that would
have been payable on the Bonds on
the redemption date if the Bonds
had
been
optionally
redeemed
instead of being purchased. No
notice of the purchase in lieu of
redemption is required to be given
to the owners of the Bonds in addition to the notice of redemption
required by this Ordinance. The
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying agent shall not purchase Bonds
if sufficient moneys have not been
deposited with the Escrow Agent or
Registrar, as paying agent, by the
City for the purpose. On or prior to
the scheduled date for optional
redemption, the City may rescind its
direction to purchase the Bonds in
lieu of redemption by written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar and the Escrow Agent. In
the event that the direction to purchase is rescinded, the Bonds shall
be redeemed on the redemption date
set forth in the notice of redemption
delivered to the owners of the Bonds
and in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as though it were a separate
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption. then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or por-

March 4, 2009
tions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption (or such period specified in the Certificate of Award), to
the registered owner of each Bond
subject to redemption in whole or in
part
at
the
registered
owner’s
address shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at
the close of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing
and to any municipal bond insurance company that has issued a policy insuring some or all of the
Bonds. Failure to receive notice by
mail or any defect in that notice
regarding any Bond, however, shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any
Bond.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph, the Bonds and portions
thereof called for redemption shall
become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption of all of the Bonds and portions
thereof to be redeemed, including
interest accrued to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail, then from and after the
redemption date those Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall cease to bear interest and
no longer shall be considered to be
outstanding. If that money shall not
be so available on the redemption
date, or that notice shall not have
been deposited in the mail, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners and shall be
paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those
Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without
deduction for the services of the Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent. Principal shall be payable
when due upon presentation and surrender of the Bonds at the principal
corporate trust office of the Registrar. Interest on a Bond shall be paid
on each Interest Payment Date by
check or draft mailed to the person
in whose name the Bond was registered, and to that person’s address
appearing on the Bond Register (as
defined in Section 3) at the close of
business on the date provided in the
Agreement authorized in Section 3
(the “Record Date”).
Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are held

The City Record
by a Depository in a book entry system (as described in Section 3), debt
charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance, except for the third paragraph of Section 13(a) (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 (pertaining generally to the periods during which the City is not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), will apply
to the Bonds. Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance
is included as a part of this Ordinance as fully as if restated in this
Ordinance. Words and terms not otherwise defined in this Ordinance
shall have the same meaning as set
forth in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by
the City’s Director of Finance. In
accordance with Section 9.96 of the
Revised Code and the foregoing
requirement that each Bond bear the
manual signature of an authorized
officer of the Trustee, either or both
of the signatures of the City’s Mayor
or of its Director of Finance may be
a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may
be a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the
Director of Law shall prepare the
Bonds and shall endorse thereon his
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his manual or facsimile
signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Registrar”). The Escrow Agent shall also act as paying
agent for the Bonds so long as the
Bonds are held in a book entry system. The Director of Finance shall
sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, an agreement
among the City, the Registrar and
the Escrow Agent (the “Agreement”), approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, providing for services relating to the
registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of the Bonds on terms that
are approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City. That
approval shall be conclusively evidenced
by
the
signing
of
the
Agreement
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pur-

251

15
suant to the Agreement from the
proceeds of the Bonds to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). The person in whose name a
Bond is registered on the Bond Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender
at the principal corporate trust office
of the Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person
legally empowered to do so in a form
satisfactory to the Registrar. A Bond
may be transferred only on the Bond
Register upon presentation and surrender of the Bond at the principal
corporate trust office of the Registrar together with an assignment
signed by the registered owner or by
a person legally empowered to do so
in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer the
Registrar shall complete, authenticate and deliver a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations requested by
the owner equal in the aggregate to
the unmatured principal amount of
the Bond surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
Ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.

16
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall

The City Record
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Bonds and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance, the written advice
of a financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 20 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase
the Bonds, including: the principal
amount of the Bonds, final purchase
price (which shall be not less than
97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of
delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal installments are payable (at
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Bonds (if different from those set
forth in Section 2) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance
to be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest
of the City to establish the terms
and requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, procedures,
and conditions for the delivery of
the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices
and certificates, to cause a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Bonds
to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and
other documents and instruments
and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated
by this Ordinance and to take all
steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and deliv-

252

March 4, 2009
ery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement between the
City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director
of Law, setting forth the terms and
conditions on which the City agrees
to sell the Bonds and the Original
Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds
on terms consistent with this Ordinance and not substantially adverse
to the City and that are approved by
the Director of Finance on behalf of
the City, all of which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing
of the Bond Purchase Agreement or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement
by
the
Director
of
Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in
this Ordinance and as may be provided in or pursuant to the Certificate of Award, are in the best interest of the City and in compliance
with all legal requirements.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Revised
Code,
the
Director
of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 2009”
or such other designation as may be
set forth in the Certificate of Award.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is hereby levied
on all the taxable property in the
City, in addition to all other taxes,
a direct tax annually during the
period the Bonds are outstanding, in
an amount sufficient to provide for
the payment of that interest, when
and as the same shall fall due, and
also to discharge the principal of
the Bonds at maturity, which tax
shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by
Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of those years are certified, extended and collected. The
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as provided pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance and those funds, together
with the interest collected on the
same, shall be irrevocably pledged
for the payment of principal of and
interest on the Bonds when and as
the same fall due; provided, however, that, subject to the provisions of
Section 8 of the General Bond Ordi-

March 4, 2009
nance, in each year to the extent
that revenues are available from
other sources for the payment of the
Bonds and are appropriated for such
purpose, the amount of such tax
shall be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25 and 5705.51 of the
Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds
are issued. Accrued interest and any
premium received from the sale of
the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund to be
applied to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if

The City Record
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by, an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation or such other
qualified organization, to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the
holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance for unclaimed funds held by
a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment
of
any
Bond
as
described in Section 17(a) of the
General Bond Ordinance, the moneys
held pursuant to this Section shall
be held and paid as provided in said
Section 17(a) for unclaimed funds
held by a Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purposes set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Six Million Two Hundred Twenty Thousand Dollars ($6,220,000) (the “Notes”)
upon the direction of the Director of
Finance to be set forth in a certificate providing for the final terms of
the Notes and the sale of the Notes
and signed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”).
Section 10. Term of the Notes. The
Notes shall bear interest at such
rate, not exceeding seven percent
(7%) per year, as may be fixed by
the Director of Finance of the City

253

17
in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall be dated their date of issuance; shall mature on the date set
forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five (5) years from such date of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of the financial
advisor of the City, determines that
it is in the best interest of the City
in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not
be redeemable for a period which
ends no later than the date which is
two (2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated “Public Facilities Improvement
Bond
Anticipation
Notes,
Series 2009”; shall be issued in such
numbers and denominations as may
be requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form
(which may be in a book entry only
system) in denominations of $5,000
or integral multiples thereof. Interest shall be payable semi-annually
on the dates set forth in the Note
Certificate of Award; provided that
if the Notes mature on or before the
end of the twelfth (12th) month following their date of issuance, interest on the Notes shall be payable at
maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note Registrar”); provided that the
Escrow Agent also shall act as paying agent for the Notes so long as
the Notes are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the
“Note Registrar Agreement”) providing for services relating to the registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of Notes on terms that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City. That approval
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Note Registrar
Agreement
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes
to the extent available and then
from other money lawfully available
and appropriated or to be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this Ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by

18
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
Ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B), Revised Code, the Director of Finance
may combine the Notes with other
bond anticipation notes of the City
into a single consolidated issue of
notes for purposes of their sale as
a single issue to be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation
Bond
Anticipation
Notes,
Series
2009.” The Notes shall contain a
summary
statement
of
purposes
encompassing the purpose for which
the Notes are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 11. Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
express upon their face the purpose
for which they are issued and that
they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Each
Note
shall
be
authenticated by the manual signa-

The City Record
ture of an authorized officer of the
Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance. In accordance with Section
9.96 of the Revised Code and the
foregoing requirement that each
Note bear the manual signature of
an authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or of its Director
of Finance may be a facsimile. The
Notes shall bear the seal of the City,
which seal may be a facsimile seal.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s
Charter, the Director of Law shall
prepare the Notes and shall endorse
thereon his approval of the form and
correctness thereof by his manual or
facsimile signature.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note
Purchaser”) in the principal amount
set forth in a certificate of award to
be executed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged,
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes.
Said tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of said year are certified, extended and collected. Said
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from said tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, and those funds, together
with the interest collected on the
same, shall be irrevocably pledged
for the payment of the principal and

254

March 4, 2009
interest of the Notes or the Bonds in
anticipation
of
which
they
are
issued, when and as the same falls
due; provided, however, that in each
year to the extent that revenues are
available from other sources for the
payment of the Notes and Bonds and
are appropriated for such purpose,
the amount of such direct tax upon
all of the taxable property in the
City may be reduced by the amount
of such revenues so available and
appropriated.
Section 15. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a
disclosure document (each, an “Official Statement”) is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
sale of the Notes or the Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or
the Bonds, as the case may be, and
any necessary supplements and to
authorize the use and distribution of
each Official Statement and any supplements. The Mayor and the Director of Finance are authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in
their official capacities each Official
Statement
and
any
supplements
approved by them. Those officers
are, and each of them is, authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements as may,
in their judgment, be necessary or
appropriate. Those officers are also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final”
by the City within the meaning of
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”).
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for services for the
production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as
the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
under the SEC Rule, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information and operating data and
notices, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of the SEC
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to prepare, or cause to be prepared,
and to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Notes or the Bonds, as the ease
may be, in accordance with the SEC
Rule.
The
performance
of
that
agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual appropriation to meet costs the

March 4, 2009
City would be required to incur to
perform it. The Director of Finance
is further authorized and directed to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Federal Tax Covenants. The City covenants that it
will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Code, (ii) be
treated other than as bonds to which
Section 103(a) of the Code applies,
or (iii) be treated other than as
bonds to which Section 54AA of the
Code applies, in the event the City
should elect pursuant to Section
54AA of the Code to have the Notes
and the Bonds treated as “Build
America Bonds,” and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds (other than “Build
America Bonds”) to be and to
remain excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, (b)
it will not take or authorize to be
taken
any
actions
that
would
adversely affect that exclusion, if
applicable, and (c) it, or persons acting for it, will, among other acts of
compliance, (i) apply the proceeds
of the Notes and the Bonds to the
governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the yield on
investment property acquired with
those proceeds, (iii) make timely
and adequate payments to the federal
government,
(iv)
maintain
books and records and make calculations and reports, and (v) refrain
from certain uses of those proceeds,
and,
as
applicable,
of
property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent nec-

The City Record
essary to assure such exclusion of
that interest under the Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds (other than “Build
America Bonds”) from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, an election under
Section 54AA of the Code to treat
some or all of the Notes and the
Bonds as “Build America Bonds,” or
any of the elections provided for in
Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or
available under Section 148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring;
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting
compliance
with
requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense of such
compliance,
reducing
the
rebate
amount or payments or penalties, or
making
payments
of
special
amounts in lieu of making computations to determine, or paying,
excess earnings as rebate, or obviating those amounts or payments, as
determined by that officer, which
action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the Notes and the
Bonds, and (c) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes and the
Bonds, setting forth the reasonable
expectations of the City regarding
the amount and use of all the proceeds of the Notes and the Bonds,
the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they are based, and
other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 19. Bond Insurance and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain a
commitment
for
municipal
bond

255

19
insurance issued by a nationally
recognized municipal bond insurance company insuring the payment
when due of the principal of and
interest on all or any portion of the
Bonds, request a rating on the
Bonds from one or more nationally
recognized rating organizations, and
do any and all things and take any
and all actions required to secure a
policy of municipal bond insurance
and/or a rating or ratings on the
Bonds including, but not limited to,
the entering into of agreements on
behalf of the City necessary to
secure a policy of municipal bond
insurance. Those agreements may
be in separate documents or included in a Bond Purchase Agreement,
a registrar agreement or a Certificate of Award, or any combination,
and contain terms not materially
inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure that insurance or
obtain those ratings is authorized
and approved, and the Director of
Finance is authorized to provide for
the payment of any such amounts
from the proceeds of the Bonds to
the extent available and otherwise
from any other funds lawfully available that are appropriated or shall
be appropriated for that purpose.
Section 20. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial
advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required
by this Ordinance to be determined
by the Director of Finance. The
Director of Finance may rely on the
written advice of any financial advisor so retained. Any financial advisor employed under the authority of
this Ordinance shall be disinterested in the transaction and be independent of the Original Purchaser or
any other party interested in the
transaction.
Section 21. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance, were taken, and
that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in those formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 22. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that
all acts, conditions and things necessary to be done precedent to and
in the issuing of the Bonds and the
Notes in order to make them legal,
valid and binding obligations of
the City have happened, been done
and been performed in regular and
due form as required by law; and
that no limitation of indebtedness
or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been exceeded in the issuance of the Bonds or
the Notes. It is further found and
determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33
(including the provisions of Section
33 with respect to readings on
three separate days or dispensing

20
with such readings by a two thirds
vote of all members of the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other applicable provisions of the City’s Charter and the rules of this Council
have been fully complied with and
this Ordinance was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 23. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 24. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 25. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing in this Ordinance is
intended to, and no provision hereof shall be applied in any manner
as would, impair the obligation of
contract of the City with respect to
any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates
of
indebtedness,
other
obligations, trust indentures, trust
agreements, or other agreements or
contracts made or entered into by
the City and for which consideration was duly received by the City
prior to the passage of this Ordinance or the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 26. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, property, health and safety
of the City by providing funds to
pay the costs of certain permanent
improvements which are urgently
needed for the benefit of the City
and for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
members elected to Council, it shall
take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest date
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 241-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
Bonds in the maximum principal
amount of $2,995,000 for the purpose
of providing funds for improving
municipal cemetery facilities, buildings structures and grounds and to
pay all expenses incurred in connection with the issuance of the
Bonds; to authorize agreements with
respect to the Bonds; and to authorize the issuance of Notes in anticipation of such Bonds.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Two Million
Nine
Hundred
Ninety-Five
Thousand Dollars ($2,995,000) (the
“Bonds”) to finance the cost of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is twenty (20)
years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance thereunder of unvoted general obligations of the City and the
General Bond Ordinance was passed
in contemplation of this Ordinance
and other ordinances authorizing
the issuance of bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to pay the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1, which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in
an aggregate principal amount not
to exceed Two Million Nine Hundred Ninety-Five Thousand Dollars
($2,995,000) for the purpose of providing funds for improving municipal cemetery facilities, buildings,
structures and grounds, including
clearing, grading and excavating
land, reconstructing, installing, renovating, and rehabilitating septic
system, drainage or sewer facilities,
installing access roadways including any necessary bridges and culverts, installing utility lines, laying
out and numbering burial plots, and
planting and landscaping, together
with all necessary and incidental

256

March 4, 2009
appurtenances and the acquisition
of any required real estate and
interests in real estate and to pay
all expenses incurred in connection
with the issuance of the Bonds,
including any financing costs within the meaning of Revised Code Section 133.01(K), and such other costs
of the foregoing permanent improvements that may be financed with
the proceeds of securities as permitted by Revised Code Section
133.15(B) and as otherwise permitted by law; and to authorize the
issuance of notes in anticipation of
such Bonds.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance in the principal amount
and for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated
“Cemeteries
Improvement
Bonds, Series 2009”. The Bonds shall
be issued in one lot as fully registered Bonds in denominations of
$5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds shall be numbered as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated their
date of issuance, or such other date,
but not later than December 31,
2009, specified in the certificate of
award providing for the final terms
of the Bonds and the sale of the
bonds and signed by the Director of
Finance in accordance with this
Ordinance
(the
“Certificate
of
Award”). The Bonds shall bear
interest at the rate or rates per year
specified
in
the
Certificate
of
Award; provided that if all the
Bonds bear interest at the same rate
per year, then such rate shall not
exceed eight percent (8%) per year,
and if the Bonds bear interest at
more than one rate per year, then
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed seven and one-half percent
(7.5%) per year. Interest on the
Bonds shall be payable, until the
principal amount is paid, semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of
each year or on the days specified
in the Certificate of Award as the
dates on which interest on the
Bonds shall be payable (the “Interest
Payment
Dates”),
beginning
June 1, 2009 or on such other Interest Payment Date specified in the
Certificate of Award as the first
Interest Payment Date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor, the Director of Finance may
determine
in
the
Certificate
of
Award that it is in the best interests of the City to elect that for
some or all of the Bonds be issued
as “Build America Bonds,” pursuant
to the provisions of Section 1531 of
P.L. 111-5, the “American Recovery
and Reinvestment Act of 2009,”
amending Section 54AA of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended (the “Code”). If the Bonds are
issued as “Build America Bonds,”
the Bonds shall bear interest at the
rate or rates per year specified in
the Certificate of Award; provided
that if all the Build America Bonds

March 4, 2009
bear interest at the same rate per
year, then such rate shall not
exceed nine percent (9%) per year,
and if the Build America Bonds bear
interest at more than one rate per
year, then the weighted average of
such rates (taking into account the
principal amount and maturity of
each Build America Bond to which
a rate applies) shall not exceed
eight and one-half percent (8.5%)
per year.
The Bonds shall mature on December 1 in twenty (20) substantially
equal annual installments, beginning December 1, 2010, or according
to the schedule set forth in the Certificate of Award, provided that (i)
each principal payment shall occur
on an Interest Payment Date, (ii)
the first principal payment on the
Bonds shall be no earlier than
December 1, 2009 and no later than
August 1, 2011, (iii) the final maturity date of the Bonds shall be no
later than twenty (20) years from
that date which is twelve months
prior to the first date on which provision for payment of principal is
made, and (iv) the principal amount
thereof shall be payable in annual
installments such that the total principal and interest payments on the
Bonds in any fiscal year in which
principal is payable is not more
than three times the amount of
those payments in any other fiscal
year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on
which
the
principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the “Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a) Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys, to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal

The City Record
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole or in
part on any date, in integral multiples of $5,000, on the optional redemption dates and at the redemption prices (expressed as a percentage
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed) specified in the Certificate of Award, plus, in each case,
accrued interest to the redemption
date. The first optional redemption
date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment Date, and the highest redemption price shall not be greater than
102%
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed plus accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor, the Director of Finance may
determine
in
the
Certificate
of
Award that it is in the best interests of the City for some or all of
the Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the

257

21
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar. That notice shall specify
the redemption date and the principal amount of each maturity of
Bonds to be redeemed, and shall be
given at least forty-five (45) days
prior to the redemption date or such
shorter period as shall be acceptable
to the Registrar. In the event that
notice of redemption shall have been
given by the Registrar to the registered owners as hereinafter provided, there shall be deposited with the
Registrar on or prior to the redemption date, funds which, in addition
to any other moneys available therefor and held by the Registrar, will
be sufficient to redeem at the
redemption price thereof, plus interest accrued to the redemption date,
all of the redeemable Bonds for
which notice of redemption has been
given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided
in the Certificate of Award, the City
may elect to purchase Bonds called
for optional redemption in lieu of
redeeming those Bonds. That election shall be exercised by written
direction
from
the
Director
of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. That written direction shall state whether all or less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased by the City in lieu of
redemption, shall identify the Bonds
to be purchased by their maturity
date and shall specify the principal
amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased in lieu of redemption, the
amount of each maturity to be purchased shall be in amounts of $5,000
or integral multiples of $5,000. Any
Bonds called for optional redemption that are not to be purchased
shall be redeemed in accordance
with their redemption provisions.
The purchase price of the Bonds
to be purchased in lieu of redemption shall be equal to the principal
of, any accrued but unpaid interest
on, and any premium that would
have been payable on the Bonds on
the redemption date if the Bonds
had
been
optionally
redeemed
instead of being purchased. No
notice of the purchase in lieu of
redemption is required to be given
to the owners of the Bonds in addition to the notice of redemption
required by this Ordinance. The
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying agent shall not purchase Bonds
if sufficient moneys have not been
deposited with the Escrow Agent or
Registrar, as paying agent, by the
City for the purpose. On or prior to
the scheduled date for optional
redemption, the City may rescind its
direction to purchase the Bonds in
lieu of redemption by written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar and the Escrow Agent. In
the event that the direction to purchase is rescinded, the Bonds shall
be redeemed on the redemption date
set forth in the notice of redemption

22
delivered to the owners of the Bonds
and in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as though it were a separate
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption. then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption (or such period specified in the Certificate of Award), to
the registered owner of each Bond
subject to redemption in whole or in
part
at
the
registered
owner’s
address shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at
the close of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing
and to any municipal bond insurance company that has issued a policy insuring some or all of the
Bonds. Failure to receive notice by
mail or any defect in that notice
regarding any Bond, however, shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any
Bond.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph, the Bonds and portions
thereof called for redemption shall
become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or

The City Record
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption of all of the Bonds and portions
thereof to be redeemed, including
interest accrued to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail, then from and after the
redemption date those Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall cease to bear interest and
no longer shall be considered to be
outstanding. If that money shall not
be so available on the redemption
date, or that notice shall not have
been deposited in the mail, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners and shall be
paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those
Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent.
Principal
shall
be
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
date provided in the Agreement
authorized in Section 3 (the “Record
Date”). Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond
Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are
held by a Depository in a book entry
system (as described in Section 3),
debt charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance, except for the third paragraph of Section 13(a) (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 (pertaining generally to the periods during which the City is not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), will apply
to the Bonds. Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance
is included as a part of this Ordinance as fully as if restated in this
Ordinance. Words and terms not otherwise defined in this Ordinance
shall have the same meaning as set
forth in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pur-

258

March 4, 2009
suant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by
the City’s Director of Finance. In
accordance with Section 9.96 of the
Revised Code and the foregoing
requirement that each Bond bear the
manual signature of an authorized
officer of the Trustee, either or both
of the signatures of the City’s Mayor
or of its Director of Finance may be
a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may
be a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the
Director of Law shall prepare the
Bonds and shall endorse thereon his
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his manual or facsimile
signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds
(the
“Registrar”).
The
Escrow Agent shall also act as paying agent for the Bonds so long as
the Bonds are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Registrar
and the Escrow Agent (the “Agreement”), approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, providing for services relating to the
registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of the Bonds on terms that
are approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City. That
approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Agreement by the Director of Finance.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
Agreement from the proceeds of the
Bonds to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). The person in whose name a
Bond is registered on the Bond Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed

March 4, 2009
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
Ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.

The City Record
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its
nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Bonds and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in

259

23
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance, the written advice
of a financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 20 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase
the Bonds, including: the principal
amount of the Bonds, final purchase
price (which shall be not less than
97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of
delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal installments are payable (at
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Bonds (if different from those set
forth in Section 2) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance
to be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest
of the City to establish the terms
and requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, procedures,
and conditions for the delivery of
the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices
and certificates, to cause a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Bonds
to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and
other documents and instruments
and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated
by this Ordinance and to take all
steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement between the
City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director
of Law, setting forth the terms and
conditions on which the City agrees
to sell the Bonds and the Original
Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds
on terms consistent with this Ordinance and not substantially adverse
to the City and that are approved by
the Director of Finance on behalf of
the City, all of which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing
of the Bond Purchase Agreement or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement
by
the
Director
of
Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in
this Ordinance and as may be provided in or pursuant to the Certificate of Award, are in the best interest of the City and in compliance
with all legal requirements.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Revised
Code,
the
Director
of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 2009”
or such other designation as may be
set forth in the Certificate of Award.
Such bonds shall contain a summa-

24
ry statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is hereby levied
on all the taxable property in the
City, in addition to all other taxes,
a direct tax annually during the
period the Bonds are outstanding, in
an amount sufficient to provide for
the payment of that interest, when
and as the same shall fall due, and
also to discharge the principal of
the Bonds at maturity, which tax
shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by
Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of those years are certified, extended and collected. The
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as provided pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance and those funds, together
with the interest collected on the
same, shall be irrevocably pledged
for the payment of principal of and
interest on the Bonds when and as
the same fall due; provided, however, that, subject to the provisions of
Section 8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in each year to the extent
that revenues are available from
other sources for the payment of the
Bonds and are appropriated for such
purpose, the amount of such tax
shall be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25 and 5705.51 of the
Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds
are issued. Accrued interest and any
premium received from the sale of
the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund to be
applied to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General

The City Record
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by, an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation or such other
qualified organization, to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the

260

March 4, 2009
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance for unclaimed funds held by
a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment
of
any
Bond
as
described in Section 17(a) of the
General Bond Ordinance, the moneys
held pursuant to this Section shall
be held and paid as provided in said
Section 17(a) for unclaimed funds
held by a Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purposes set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Two Million
Nine
Hundred
Ninety-Five
Thousand Dollars ($2,995,000) (the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth
in a certificate providing for the
final terms of the Notes and the sale
of the Notes and signed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”).
Section 10. Term of the Notes. The
Notes shall bear interest at such
rate, not exceeding seven percent
(7%) per year, as may be fixed by
the Director of Finance of the City
in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall be dated their date of issuance; shall mature on the date set
forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five (5) years from such date of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of the financial
advisor of the City, determines that
it is in the best interest of the City
in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not
be redeemable for a period which
ends no later than the date which is
two (2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated “Cemeteries Improvement
Bond
Anticipation
Notes,
Series
2009”; shall be issued in such numbers and denominations as may be
requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form
(which may be in a book entry only
system) in denominations of $5,000
or integral multiples thereof. Interest shall be payable semi-annually
on the dates set forth in the Note
Certificate of Award; provided that
if the Notes mature on or before the
end of the twelfth (12th) month following their date of issuance, interest on the Notes shall be payable at
maturity.

March 4, 2009
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note Registrar”); provided that the
Escrow Agent also shall act as paying agent for the Notes so long as
the Notes are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the
“Note Registrar Agreement”) providing for services relating to the registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of Notes on terms that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City. That approval
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Note Registrar
Agreement
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes
to the extent available and then
from other money lawfully available
and appropriated or to be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this Ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Reg-

The City Record
istrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
Ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Revised
Code,
the
Director
of
Finance may combine the Notes
with other bond anticipation notes
of the City into a single consolidated issue of notes for purposes of
their sale as a single issue to be
designated “Various Purpose General
Obligation
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 2009.” The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Notes are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 11. Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
express upon their face the purpose
for which they are issued and that
they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Each
Note
shall
be
authenticated by the manual signature of an authorized officer of the
Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance. In accordance with Section
9.96 of the Revised Code and the
foregoing requirement that each
Note bear the manual signature of
an authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or of its Director
of Finance may be a facsimile. The
Notes shall bear the seal of the City,
which seal may be a facsimile seal.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s
Charter, the Director of Law shall
prepare the Notes and shall endorse
thereon his approval of the form and
correctness thereof by his manual or
facsimile signature.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note
Purchaser”) in the principal amount
set forth in a certificate of award to
be executed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”) at not less than par and

261

25
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged,
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes.
Said tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of said year are certified, extended and collected. Said
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from said tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, and those funds, together
with the interest collected on the
same, shall be irrevocably pledged
for the payment of the principal and
interest of the Notes or the Bonds in
anticipation
of
which
they
are
issued, when and as the same falls
due; provided, however, that in each
year to the extent that revenues are
available from other sources for the
payment of the Notes and Bonds and
are appropriated for such purpose,
the amount of such direct tax upon
all of the taxable property in the
City may be reduced by the amount
of such revenues so available and
appropriated.
Section 15. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a
disclosure document (each, an “Official Statement”) is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
sale of the Notes or the Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or
the Bonds, as the case may be, and
any necessary supplements and to
authorize the use and distribution of
each Official Statement and any supplements. The Mayor and the Director of Finance are authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in
their official capacities each Official
Statement and any supplements approved by them. Those officers are,
and each of them is, authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities
such certificates in connection with

26
the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements as may,
in their judgment, be necessary or
appropriate. Those officers are also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final”
by the City within the meaning of
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”).
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for services for the
production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as
the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
under the SEC Rule, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information and operating data and
notices, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of the SEC
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to prepare, or cause to be prepared,
and to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Notes or the Bonds, as the ease
may be, in accordance with the SEC
Rule.
The
performance
of
that
agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual appropriation to meet costs the
City would be required to incur to
perform it. The Director of Finance
is further authorized and directed to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are inconsistent with the provisions of this
Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance shall not apply to the Bonds or
the Notes authorized herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Federal Tax Covenants. The City covenants that it
will use, and will restrict the use

The City Record
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute private activity bonds, arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds under
Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the Code,
(ii) be treated other than as bonds
to which Section 103(a) of the Code
applies, or (iii) be treated other
than as bonds to which Section
54AA of the Code applies, in the
event the City should elect pursuant
to Section 54AA of the Code to have
the Notes and the Bonds treated as
“Build America Bonds,” and (b) the
interest thereon will not be treated
as an item of tax preference under
Section 57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds (other than “Build
America Bonds”) to be and to
remain excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, (b)
it will not take or authorize to be
taken
any
actions
that
would
adversely affect that exclusion, if
applicable, and (c) it, or persons
acting for it, will, among other acts
of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the Notes and the Bonds to
the governmental purpose of the
borrowing, (ii) restrict the yield on
investment property acquired with
those proceeds, (iii) make timely
and adequate payments to the federal
government,
(iv) maintain
books and records and make calculations and reports, and (v) refrain
from certain uses of those proceeds,
and,
as
applicable,
of
property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of
that interest under the Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds (other than “Build
America Bonds”) from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, an election under
Section 54AA of the Code to treat
some or all of the Notes and the
Bonds as “Build America Bonds,” or
any of the elections provided for in
Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or
available under Section 148 of the

262

March 4, 2009
Code, for the purpose of assuring;
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting
compliance
with
requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense of such
compliance,
reducing
the
rebate
amount or payments or penalties, or
making
payments
of
special
amounts in lieu of making computations to determine, or paying,
excess earnings as rebate, or obviating those amounts or payments, as
determined by that officer, which
action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the Notes and the
Bonds, and (c) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes and the
Bonds, setting forth the reasonable
expectations of the City regarding
the amount and use of all the proceeds of the Notes and the Bonds,
the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they are based, and
other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 19. Bond Insurance and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain a
commitment
for
municipal
bond
insurance issued by a nationally recognized municipal bond insurance
company
insuring
the
payment
when due of the principal of and
interest on all or any portion of the
Bonds, request a rating on the
Bonds from one or more nationally
recognized rating organizations, and
do any and all things and take any
and all actions required to secure a
policy of municipal bond insurance
and/or a rating or ratings on the
Bonds including, but not limited to,
the entering into of agreements on
behalf of the City necessary to
secure a policy of municipal bond
insurance. Those agreements may
be in separate documents or included in a Bond Purchase Agreement,
a registrar agreement or a Certificate of Award, or any combination,
and contain terms not materially
inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure that insurance or
obtain those ratings is authorized
and approved, and the Director of
Finance is authorized to provide for
the payment of any such amounts
from the proceeds of the Bonds to
the extent available and otherwise
from any other funds lawfully available that are appropriated or shall
be appropriated for that purpose.
Section 20. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial
advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required
by this Ordinance to be determined
by the Director of Finance. The

March 4, 2009
Director of Finance may rely on the
written advice of any financial advisor so retained. Any financial advisor employed under the authority of
this Ordinance shall be disinterested in the transaction and be independent of the Original Purchaser or
any other party interested in the
transaction.
Section 21. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance, were taken, and
that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in those formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 22. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required by law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections
28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 23. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 24. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 25. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of

The City Record
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 26. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 242-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
Bonds in the maximum principal
amount of $15,930,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve
the municipal street system and
related facilities and to pay all
expenses
incurred
in
connection
with the issuance of the Bonds; to
authorize agreements with respect
to the Bonds; and to authorize the
issuance of Notes in anticipation of
such Bonds.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Fifteen
Million Nine Hundred Thirty Thousand
Dollars ($15,930,000) (the “Bonds”) to
finance the cost of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is seventeen
(17) years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms and provisions for the issu-

263

27
ance thereunder of unvoted general
obligations of the City and the General Bond Ordinance was passed in
contemplation of this Ordinance and
other ordinances authorizing the
issuance of bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to pay the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1, which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to exceed Fifteen Million Nine Hundred
Thirty Thousand Dollars ($15,930,000)
for the purpose of providing funds
to improve the municipal street system and related facilities, including
streets, expressways, roadways, driveway approaches and pedestrian walkways as designated, by acquiring,
constructing, reconstructing, opening, extending, widening, grading,
draining, paving, resurfacing, lighting and curbing, installing gutters,
sidewalks and related pedestrian
improvements, constructing and improving retaining walls, relocating
certain utilities, resetting and constructing catch basins and other
storm drainage facilities, constructing, reconstructing, replacing, renovating and rehabilitating bridges,
acquiring any real estate and interests in real estate, including easements, necessary for such purpose,
and installing signs, signals, markings and other devices for traffic
control purposes, together with the
payment of all associated preliminary costs and costs of site clearance and all appurtenances necessary and incidental thereto, and to
pay all expenses incurred in connection with the issuance of the
Bonds,
including
any
financing
costs within the meaning of Revised
Code Section 133.01(K); and such
other costs of the foregoing permanent improvements that may be
financed with the proceeds of securities as permitted by Revised Code
Section 133.15(B) and as otherwise
permitted by law; and to authorize
the issuance of notes in anticipation
of such Bonds.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance in the principal amount
and for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated
“Bridges
and
Roadways
Improvement Bonds, Series 2009.”
The Bonds shall be issued in one lot
as fully registered Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or any integral
multiple thereof. The Bonds shall be
numbered as determined by the
Director of Finance.

28
The Bonds shall be dated their
date of issuance, or such other date,
but not later than December 31,
2009, specified in the certificate of
award providing for the final terms
of the Bonds and the sale of the
bonds and signed by the Director of
Finance in accordance with this
Ordinance
(the
“Certificate
of
Award”). The Bonds shall bear
interest at the rate or rates per year
specified
in
the
Certificate
of
Award; provided that if all the
Bonds bear interest at the same rate
per year, then such rate shall not
exceed eight percent (8%) per year,
and if the Bonds bear interest at
more than one rate per year, then
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed seven and one-half percent
(7.5%) per year. Interest on the
Bonds shall be payable, until the
principal amount is paid, semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of
each year or on the days specified
in the Certificate of Award as the
dates on which interest on the
Bonds shall be payable (the “Interest
Payment
Dates”),
beginning
June 1, 2009 or on such other Interest Payment Date specified in the
Certificate of Award as the first
Interest Payment Date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor, the Director of Finance may
determine
in
the
Certificate
of
Award that it is in the best interests of the City to elect that some
or all of the Bonds be issued as
“Build America Bonds,” pursuant to
the provisions of Section 1531 of P.L.
111-5, the “American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act of 2009,” amending Section 54AA of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 as amended
(the “Code”). If the Bonds are issued
as “Build America Bonds,” the Bonds
shall bear interest at the rate or
rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award; provided that if
all the Build America Bonds bear
interest at the same rate per year,
then such rate shall not exceed nine
percent (9%) per year, and if the
Build America Bonds bear interest
at more than one rate per year, then
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Build
America Bond to which a rate
applies) shall not exceed eight and
one-half percent (8.5%) per year.
The Bonds shall mature on December 1 in seventeen (17) substantially equal annual installments, beginning December 1, 2010, or according
to the schedule set forth in the Certificate of Award, provided that (i)
each principal payment shall occur
on an Interest Payment Date, (ii)
the first principal payment on the
Bonds shall be no earlier than
December 1, 2009 and no later than
August 1, 2011, (iii) the final maturity date of the Bonds shall be no
later
than
seventeen
(17) years
from that date which is twelve
months prior to the first date on
which provision for payment of principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount thereof shall be payable in
annual installments such that the
total principal and interest payments on the Bonds in any fiscal
year in which principal is payable

The City Record
is not more than three times the
amount of those payments in any
other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on
which
the
principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the “Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a) Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys, to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not

264

March 4, 2009
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole or in
part on any date, in integral multiples of $5,000, on the optional
redemption dates and at the redemption prices (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount
redeemed) specified in the Certificate of Award, plus, in each case,
accrued interest to the redemption
date. The first optional redemption
date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment Date, and the highest redemption price shall not be greater than
102% of the principal amount redeemed plus accrued interest to the
redemption date. Based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may determine
in the Certificate of Award that it
is in the best interests of the City
for some or all of the Bonds not to
be callable prior to their stated
maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar. That notice shall specify
the redemption date and the principal amount of each maturity of
Bonds to be redeemed, and shall be
given at least forty-five (45) days
prior to the redemption date or such
shorter period as shall be acceptable
to the Registrar. In the event that
notice of redemption shall have been
given by the Registrar to the registered owners as hereinafter provided, there shall be deposited with the
Registrar on or prior to the redemption date, funds which, in addition
to any other moneys available therefor and held by the Registrar, will
be sufficient to redeem at the
redemption price thereof, plus interest accrued to the redemption date,
all of the redeemable Bonds for
which notice of redemption has been
given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided
in the Certificate of Award, the City
may elect to purchase Bonds called

March 4, 2009
for optional redemption in lieu of
redeeming those Bonds. That election shall be exercised by written
direction
from
the
Director
of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. That written direction shall state whether all or less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased by the City in lieu of
redemption, shall identify the Bonds
to be purchased by their maturity
date and shall specify the principal
amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased in lieu of redemption, the
amount of each maturity to be purchased shall be in amounts of $5,000
or integral multiples of $5,000. Any
Bonds called for optional redemption that are not to be purchased
shall be redeemed in accordance
with their redemption provisions.
The purchase price of the Bonds
to be purchased in lieu of redemption shall be equal to the principal
of, any accrued but unpaid interest
on, and any premium that would
have been payable on the Bonds on
the redemption date if the Bonds
had
been
optionally
redeemed
instead of being purchased. No
notice of the purchase in lieu of
redemption is required to be given
to the owners of the Bonds in addition to the notice of redemption
required by this Ordinance. The
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying agent shall not purchase Bonds
if sufficient moneys have not been
deposited with the Escrow Agent or
Registrar, as paying agent, by the
City for the purpose. On or prior to
the scheduled date for optional
redemption, the City may rescind its
direction to purchase the Bonds in
lieu of redemption by written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar and the Escrow Agent. In
the event that the direction to purchase is rescinded, the Bonds shall
be redeemed on the redemption date
set forth in the notice of redemption
delivered to the owners of the Bonds
and in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as though it were a separate
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption. then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for

The City Record
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption (or such period specified in the Certificate of Award), to
the registered owner of each Bond
subject to redemption in whole or in
part
at
the
registered
owner’s
address shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at
the close of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing
and to any municipal bond insurance company that has issued a policy insuring some or all of the
Bonds. Failure to receive notice by
mail or any defect in that notice
regarding any Bond, however, shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any
Bond.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph, the Bonds and portions
thereof called for redemption shall
become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption of all of the Bonds and portions
thereof to be redeemed, including
interest accrued to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail, then from and after the
redemption date those Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall cease to bear interest and
no longer shall be considered to be
outstanding. If that money shall not
be so available on the redemption
date, or that notice shall not have
been deposited in the mail, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners and shall be
paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those
Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the

265

29
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying agent. Principal shall be payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
date provided in the Agreement
authorized in Section 3 (the “Record
Date”).
Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are held
by a Depository in a book entry system (as described in Section 3), debt
charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance, except for the third paragraph of Section 13(a) (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 (pertaining generally to the periods during which the City is not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), will apply
to the Bonds. Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance
is included as a part of this Ordinance as fully as if restated in this
Ordinance. Words and terms not otherwise defined in this Ordinance
shall have the same meaning as set
forth in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by
the City’s Director of Finance. In
accordance with Section 9.96 of the
Revised Code and the foregoing
requirement that each Bond bear the
manual signature of an authorized
officer of the Trustee, either or both
of the signatures of the City’s Mayor
or of its Director of Finance may be
a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may
be a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the
Director of Law shall prepare the
Bonds and shall endorse thereon his
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his manual or facsimile
signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds
(the
“Registrar”).
The
Escrow Agent shall also act as paying agent for the Bonds so long as
the Bonds are held in a book entry

30
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Registrar
and the Escrow Agent (the “Agreement”), approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, providing for services relating to the
registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of the Bonds on terms that
are approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City. That
approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Agreement by the Director of Finance.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
Agreement from the proceeds of the
Bonds to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). The person in whose name a
Bond is registered on the Bond Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of

The City Record
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
Ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for

266

March 4, 2009
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Bonds and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance, the written advice
of a financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 20 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase
the Bonds, including: the principal
amount of the Bonds, final purchase
price (which shall be not less than
97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of
delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal installments are payable (at
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Bonds (if different from those set
forth in Section 2) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance
to be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest
of the City to establish the terms
and requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrange-

March 4, 2009
ments as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, procedures,
and conditions for the delivery of
the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices
and certificates, to cause a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Bonds
to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and
other documents and instruments
and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated
by this Ordinance and to take all
steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement between the
City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director
of Law, setting forth the terms and
conditions on which the City agrees
to sell the Bonds and the Original
Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds
on terms consistent with this Ordinance and not substantially adverse
to the City and that are approved by
the Director of Finance on behalf of
the City, all of which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing
of the Bond Purchase Agreement or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement
by
the
Director
of
Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in
this Ordinance and as may be provided in or pursuant to the Certificate of Award, are in the best interest of the City and in compliance
with all legal requirements.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Revised
Code,
the
Director
of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 2009”
or such other designation as may be
set forth in the Certificate of Award.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is hereby levied
on all the taxable property in the
City, in addition to all other taxes,
a direct tax annually during the
period the Bonds are outstanding, in
an amount sufficient to provide for
the payment of that interest, when
and as the same shall fall due, and
also to discharge the principal of
the Bonds at maturity, which tax
shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by
Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same

The City Record
time that taxes for general purposes for each of those years are certified, extended and collected. The
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as provided pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance and those funds, together
with the interest collected on the
same, shall be irrevocably pledged
for the payment of principal of and
interest on the Bonds when and as
the same fall due; provided, however, that, subject to the provisions of
Section 8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in each year to the extent
that revenues are available from
other sources for the payment of the
Bonds and are appropriated for such
purpose, the amount of such tax
shall be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25 and 5705.51 of the
Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds
are issued. Accrued interest and any
premium received from the sale of
the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund to be
applied to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) here-

267

31
of) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by, an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation or such other
qualified organization, to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance for unclaimed funds held by
a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment
of
any
Bond
as
described in Section 17(a) of the
General Bond Ordinance, the moneys
held pursuant to this Section shall
be held and paid as provided in said
Section 17(a) for unclaimed funds
held by a Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in

32
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purposes set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Fifteen
Million Nine Hundred Thirty Thousand
Dollars
($15,930,000) (the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth
in a certificate providing for the
final terms of the Notes and the sale
of the Notes and signed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”).
Section 10. Term of the Notes. The
Notes shall bear interest at such
rate, not exceeding seven percent
(7%) per year, as may be fixed by
the Director of Finance of the City
in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall
be
dated
their
date
of
issuance; shall mature on the date
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five (5) years from such date of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of the financial
advisor of the City, determines that
it is in the best interest of the City
in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not
be redeemable for a period which
ends no later than the date which is
two (2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated
“Bridges
and
Roadways
Improvement
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 2009”; shall be issued
in such numbers and denominations
as may be requested by the Note
Purchaser
(hereinafter
defined);
and shall be issued in fully registered form (which may be in a book
entry only system) in denominations of $5,000 or integral multiples
thereof. Interest shall be payable
semi-annually on the dates set forth
in the Note Certificate of Award;
provided that if the Notes mature on
or before the end of the twelfth
(12th) month following their date of
issuance, interest on the Notes shall
be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note Registrar”); provided that the
Escrow Agent also shall act as paying agent for the Notes so long as
the Notes are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the
“Note Registrar Agreement”) providing for services relating to the registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of Notes on terms that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City. That approval
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Note Registrar
Agreement
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes
to the extent available and then
from other money lawfully available
and appropriated or to be appropriated for that purpose.

The City Record
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this Ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
Ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B), Revised Code, the Director of Finance
may combine the Notes with other
bond anticipation notes of the City

268

March 4, 2009
into a single consolidated issue of
notes for purposes of their sale as
a single issue to be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation
Bond
Anticipation
Notes,
Series
2009.” The Notes shall contain a
summary
statement
of
purposes
encompassing the purpose for which
the Notes are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 11. Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
express upon their face the purpose
for which they are issued and that
they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Each
Note
shall
be
authenticated by the manual signature of an authorized officer of the
Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance. In accordance with Section
9.96 of the Revised Code and the
foregoing requirement that each
Note bear the manual signature of
an authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or of its Director
of Finance may be a facsimile. The
Notes shall bear the seal of the City,
which seal may be a facsimile seal.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s
Charter, the Director of Law shall
prepare the Notes and shall endorse
thereon his approval of the form and
correctness thereof by his manual or
facsimile signature.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note
Purchaser”) in the principal amount
set forth in a certificate of award to
be executed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged,
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax
annually not less than that which
would have been levied if bonds had
been issued therefor without the
prior issue of the Notes.

March 4, 2009
Said tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of said year are certified, extended and collected. Said
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from said tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, and those funds, together
with the interest collected on the
same, shall be irrevocably pledged
for the payment of the principal and
interest of the Notes or the Bonds in
anticipation
of
which
they
are
issued, when and as the same falls
due; provided, however, that in each
year to the extent that revenues are
available from other sources for the
payment of the Notes and Bonds and
are appropriated for such purpose,
the amount of such direct tax upon
all of the taxable property in the
City may be reduced by the amount
of such revenues so available and
appropriated.
Section 15. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a
disclosure document (each, an “Official Statement”) is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
sale of the Notes or the Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or
the Bonds, as the case may be, and
any necessary supplements and to
authorize the use and distribution of
each Official Statement and any supplements. The Mayor and the Director of Finance are authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in
their official capacities each Official
Statement and any supplements approved by them. Those officers are,
and each of them is, authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements as may,
in their judgment, be necessary or
appropriate. Those officers are also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final”
by the City within the meaning of
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”).
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for services for the
production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as
the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
under the SEC Rule, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information and operating data and
notices, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of the SEC
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including pro-

The City Record
visions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to prepare, or cause to be prepared,
and to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Notes or the Bonds, as the ease
may be, in accordance with the SEC
Rule.
The
performance
of
that
agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual appropriation to meet costs the
City would be required to incur to
perform it. The Director of Finance
is further authorized and directed to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Federal Tax Covenants. The City covenants that it
will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute private activity bonds, arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds under
Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the Code,
(ii) be treated other than as bonds
to which Section 103(a) of the Code
applies, or (iii) be treated other
than as bonds to which Section
54AA of the Code applies, in the
event the City should elect pursuant
to Section 54AA of the Code to have
the Notes and the Bonds treated as
“Build America Bonds,” and (b) the
interest thereon will not be treated
as an item of tax preference under
Section 57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds (other than “Build
America Bonds”) to be and to
remain excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, (b)
it will not take or authorize to be
taken
any
actions
that
would
adversely affect that exclusion, if

269

33
applicable, and (c) it, or persons
acting for it, will, among other acts
of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the Notes and the Bonds to
the governmental purpose of the
borrowing, (ii) restrict the yield on
investment property acquired with
those proceeds, (iii) make timely
and adequate payments to the federal
government,
(iv) maintain
books and records and make calculations and reports, and (v) refrain
from certain uses of those proceeds,
and,
as
applicable,
of
property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of
that interest under the Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds (other than “Build
America Bonds”) from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, an election under
Section 54AA of the Code to treat
some or all of the Notes and the
Bonds as “Build America Bonds,” or
any of the elections provided for in
Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or
available under Section 148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring;
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting
compliance
with
requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense of such
compliance,
reducing
the
rebate
amount or payments or penalties, or
making
payments
of
special
amounts in lieu of making computations to determine, or paying,
excess earnings as rebate, or obviating those amounts or payments, as
determined by that officer, which
action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the Notes and the
Bonds, and (c) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes and the
Bonds, setting forth the reasonable
expectations of the City regarding

34
the amount and use of all the proceeds of the Notes and the Bonds,
the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they are based, and
other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 19. Bond Insurance and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain a
commitment
for
municipal
bond
insurance issued by a nationally recognized municipal bond insurance
company
insuring
the
payment
when due of the principal of and
interest on all or any portion of the
Bonds, request a rating on the
Bonds from one or more nationally
recognized rating organizations, and
do any and all things and take any
and all actions required to secure a
policy of municipal bond insurance
and/or a rating or ratings on the
Bonds including, but not limited to,
the entering into of agreements on
behalf of the City necessary to
secure a policy of municipal bond
insurance. Those agreements may
be in separate documents or included in a Bond Purchase Agreement,
a registrar agreement or a Certificate of Award, or any combination,
and contain terms not materially
inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure that insurance or
obtain those ratings is authorized
and approved, and the Director of
Finance is authorized to provide for
the payment of any such amounts
from the proceeds of the Bonds to
the extent available and otherwise
from any other funds lawfully available that are appropriated or shall
be appropriated for that purpose.
Section 20. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial
advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required
by this Ordinance to be determined
by the Director of Finance. The
Director of Finance may rely on the
written advice of any financial advisor so retained. Any financial advisor employed under the authority of
this Ordinance shall be disinterested in the transaction and be independent of the Original Purchaser or
any other party interested in the
transaction.
Section 21. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance, were taken, and
that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in those formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 22. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have

The City Record
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required by law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections
28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 23. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 24. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 25. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 26. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided

270

March 4, 2009
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 243-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
Bonds in the maximum principal
amount of $13,685,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve
municipal
parks
and
recreation
facilities and to pay all expenses
incurred in connection with the
issuance of the Bonds; to authorize
agreements with respect to the
Bonds; and to authorize the issuance
of Notes in anticipation of such
Bonds.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Thirteen
Million Six Hundred Eighty-Five
Thousand Dollars ($13,685,000) (the
“Bonds”) to finance the cost of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is twenty (20)
years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms and provisions for the issuance thereunder of unvoted general
obligations of the City and the General Bond Ordinance was passed in
contemplation of this Ordinance and
other ordinances authorizing the
issuance of bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to pay the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1, which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Thirteen Million Six Hundred Eighty-Five Thousand Dollars
($13,685,000) for the purpose of providing funds to improve municipal
parks and recreation facilities by

March 4, 2009
constructing, reconstructing, rehabilitating, installing, renovating, enlarging and otherwise improving
parks and recreation centers and
areas, pools, skating rinks, greenhouses, bicycle paths, playgrounds,
playfields, golf courses and related
buildings,
structures,
walkways,
pavement and facilities, and providing
necessary
water
systems,
drainage, lighting, signage, fixtures,
furnishings, equipment, safety modifications and site improvements,
together with all preliminary associated research, planning and development and all necessary and incidental appurtenances in all cases,
including the acquisition of any
required real estate and interests in
real estate and to pay all expenses
incurred in connection with the
issuance of the Bonds, including any
financing costs within the meaning
of Revised Code Section 133.01(K),
and such other costs of the foregoing permanent improvements that
may be financed with the proceeds
of
securities
as
permitted
by
Revised Code Section 133.15(B) and
as otherwise permitted by law; and
to authorize the issuance of notes in
anticipation of such Bonds.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance in the principal amount
and for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated “Parks and Recreation Facilities
Improvement
Bonds,
Series
2009”. The Bonds shall be issued in
one lot as fully registered Bonds in
denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated their
date of issuance, or such other date,
but not later than December 31,
2009, specified in the certificate of
award providing for the final terms
of the Bonds and the sale of the
bonds and signed by the Director of
Finance in accordance with this
Ordinance
(the
“Certificate
of
Award”). The Bonds shall bear
interest at the rate or rates per year
specified
in
the
Certificate
of
Award; provided that if all the
Bonds bear interest at the same rate
per year, then such rate shall not
exceed eight percent (8%) per year,
and if the Bonds bear interest at
more than one rate per year, then
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed seven and one-half percent
(7.5%) per year. Interest on the
Bonds shall be payable, until the
principal amount is paid, semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of
each year or on the days specified
in the Certificate of Award as the
dates on which interest on the
Bonds shall be payable (the “Interest
Payment
Dates”),
beginning
June 1, 2009 or on such other Interest Payment Date specified in the
Certificate of Award as the first
Interest Payment Date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advi-

The City Record
sor, the Director of Finance may
determine
in
the
Certificate
of
Award that it is in the best interests of the City to elect that some
or all of the Bonds be issued as
“Build America Bonds,” pursuant to
the provisions of Section 1531 of P.L.
111-5, the “American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act of 2009,” amending Section 54AA of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 as amended
(the “Code”). If the Bonds are issued
as “Build America Bonds,” the Bonds
shall bear interest at the rate or
rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award; provided that if
all the Build America Bonds bear
interest at the same rate per year,
then such rate shall not exceed nine
percent (9%) per year, and if the
Build America Bonds bear interest
at more than one rate per year, then
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Build
America Bond to which a rate
applies) shall not exceed eight and
one-half percent (8.5%) per year.
The Bonds shall mature on December 1 in twenty (20) substantially equal annual installments,
beginning December 1, 2010, or according to the schedule set forth in
the Certificate of Award, provided
that
(i) each
principal
payment
shall occur on an Interest Payment
Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be no earlier than December 1, 2009 and no
later than August 1, 2011, (iii) the
final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than twenty (20)
years from that date which is
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount
thereof
shall
be
payable in annual installments such
that the total principal and interest
payments on the Bonds in any fiscal year in which principal is
payable is not more than three times
the amount of those payments in
any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on
which
the
principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the “Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a) Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount redeemed, plus interest accrued to the
redemption date, on the Mandatory
Redemption Dates.

271

35
The aggregate of the moneys, to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole or in
part on any date, in integral multiples of $5,000, on the optional
redemption dates and at the redemption prices (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount
redeemed) specified in the Certificate of Award, plus, in each case,
accrued interest to the redemption
date. The first optional redemption
date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment Date, and the highest redemption price shall not be greater than
102%
of
the
principal
amount

36
redeemed plus accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor, the Director of Finance may
determine
in
the
Certificate
of
Award that it is in the best interests of the City for some or all of
the Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar. That notice shall specify
the redemption date and the principal amount of each maturity of
Bonds to be redeemed, and shall be
given at least forty-five (45) days
prior to the redemption date or such
shorter period as shall be acceptable
to the Registrar. In the event that
notice of redemption shall have been
given by the Registrar to the registered owners as hereinafter provided, there shall be deposited with the
Registrar on or prior to the redemption date, funds which, in addition
to any other moneys available therefor and held by the Registrar, will
be sufficient to redeem at the
redemption price thereof, plus interest accrued to the redemption date,
all of the redeemable Bonds for
which notice of redemption has been
given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided
in the Certificate of Award, the City
may elect to purchase Bonds called
for optional redemption in lieu of
redeeming those Bonds. That election shall be exercised by written
direction
from
the
Director
of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. That written direction shall state whether all or less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased by the City in lieu of
redemption, shall identify the Bonds
to be purchased by their maturity
date and shall specify the principal
amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased in lieu of redemption, the
amount of each maturity to be purchased shall be in amounts of $5,000
or integral multiples of $5,000. Any
Bonds called for optional redemption that are not to be purchased
shall be redeemed in accordance
with their redemption provisions.
The purchase price of the Bonds
to be purchased in lieu of redemption shall be equal to the principal
of, any accrued but unpaid interest
on, and any premium that would
have been payable on the Bonds on
the redemption date if the Bonds
had
been
optionally
redeemed
instead of being purchased. No
notice of the purchase in lieu of
redemption is required to be given
to the owners of the Bonds in addition to the notice of redemption

The City Record
required by this Ordinance. The
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying agent shall not purchase Bonds
if sufficient moneys have not been
deposited with the Escrow Agent or
Registrar, as paying agent, by the
City for the purpose. On or prior to
the scheduled date for optional
redemption, the City may rescind its
direction to purchase the Bonds in
lieu of redemption by written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar and the Escrow Agent. In
the event that the direction to purchase is rescinded, the Bonds shall
be redeemed on the redemption date
set forth in the notice of redemption
delivered to the owners of the Bonds
and in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as though it were a separate
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption. then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption (or such period specified in the Certificate of Award), to
the registered owner of each Bond
subject to redemption in whole or in
part
at
the
registered
owner’s
address shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at
the close of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing

272

March 4, 2009
and to any municipal bond insurance company that has issued a policy insuring some or all of the
Bonds. Failure to receive notice by
mail or any defect in that notice
regarding any Bond, however, shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any
Bond.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph, the Bonds and portions
thereof called for redemption shall
become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption of all of the Bonds and portions
thereof to be redeemed, including
interest accrued to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail, then from and after the
redemption date those Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall cease to bear interest and
no longer shall be considered to be
outstanding. If that money shall not
be so available on the redemption
date, or that notice shall not have
been deposited in the mail, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held by the Registrar for the redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners and shall be
paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those
Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent.
Principal
shall
be
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
date provided in the Agreement
authorized in Section 3 (the “Record
Date”).
Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are held
by a Depository in a book entry system (as described in Section 3), debt
charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance, except for the third paragraph of Section 13(a) (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 (pertaining generally to the periods during which the City is not
required to make any transfers or

March 4, 2009
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), will apply
to the Bonds. Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance
is included as a part of this Ordinance as fully as if restated in this
Ordinance. Words and terms not otherwise defined in this Ordinance
shall have the same meaning as set
forth in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by
the City’s Director of Finance. In
accordance with Section 9.96 of the
Revised Code and the foregoing
requirement that each Bond bear the
manual signature of an authorized
officer of the Trustee, either or both
of the signatures of the City’s Mayor
or of its Director of Finance may be
a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may
be a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the
Director of Law shall prepare the
Bonds and shall endorse thereon his
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his manual or facsimile
signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds
(the
“Registrar”).
The
Escrow Agent shall also act as paying agent for the Bonds so long as
the Bonds are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Registrar
and the Escrow Agent (the “Agreement”), approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, providing for services relating to the
registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of the Bonds on terms that
are approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City. That
approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Agreement by the Director of Finance.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
Agreement from the proceeds of the
Bonds to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). The person in whose name a
Bond is registered on the Bond Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges

The City Record
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
Ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the

273

37
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository and any other arrangements
deemed
necessary,
shall
permit
withdrawal of the Bonds from the
Depository, and the Trustee and
Registrar shall authenticate and
deliver bond certificates in registered form to the assigns of the
Depository or its nominee, all at the
cost and expense (including any
costs of printing), if the event is
not the result of City action or inaction, of those persons requesting
such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.

38
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Bonds and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance, the written advice
of a financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 20 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase
the Bonds, including: the principal
amount of the Bonds, final purchase
price (which shall be not less than
97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of
delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal installments are payable (at
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Bonds (if different from those set
forth in Section 2) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance
to be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest
of the City to establish the terms
and requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, procedures,
and conditions for the delivery of
the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices
and certificates, to cause a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Bonds
to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and
other documents and instruments
and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated
by this Ordinance and to take all
steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement between the
City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director
of Law, setting forth the terms and
conditions on which the City agrees
to sell the Bonds and the Original
Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds
on terms consistent with this Ordinance and not substantially adverse
to the City and that are approved by
the Director of Finance on behalf of
the City, all of which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing
of the Bond Purchase Agreement or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement
by
the
Director
of

The City Record
Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in
this Ordinance and as may be provided in or pursuant to the Certificate of Award, are in the best interest of the City and in compliance
with all legal requirements.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Revised
Code,
the
Director
of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 2009”
or such other designation as may be
set forth in the Certificate of Award.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is hereby levied
on all the taxable property in the
City, in addition to all other taxes,
a direct tax annually during the
period the Bonds are outstanding, in
an amount sufficient to provide for
the payment of that interest, when
and as the same shall fall due, and
also to discharge the principal of
the Bonds at maturity, which tax
shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by
Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of those years are certified, extended and collected. The
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as provided pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance and those funds, together
with the interest collected on the
same, shall be irrevocably pledged
for the payment of principal of and
interest on the Bonds when and as
the same fall due; provided, however, that, subject to the provisions of
Section 8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in each year to the extent
that revenues are available from
other sources for the payment of the
Bonds and are appropriated for such
purpose, the amount of such tax
shall be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25 and 5705.51 of the
Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.

274

March 4, 2009
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds
are issued. Accrued interest and any
premium received from the sale of
the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund to be
applied to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b)
Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by, an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation or such other
qualified organization, to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be suf-

March 4, 2009
ficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance for unclaimed funds held by
a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment
of
any
Bond
as
described in Section 17(a) of the
General Bond Ordinance, the moneys
held pursuant to this Section shall
be held and paid as provided in said
Section 17(a) for unclaimed funds
held by a Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purposes set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Thirteen
Million Six Hundred Eighty-Five
Thousand Dollars ($13,685,000) (the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth
in a certificate providing for the
final terms of the Notes and the sale
of the Notes and signed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”).
Section 10. Term of the Notes. The
Notes shall bear interest at such
rate, not exceeding seven percent
(7%) per year, as may be fixed by
the Director of Finance of the City
in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall
be
dated
their
date
of
issuance; shall mature on the date
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five (5) years from such date of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of the financial
advisor of the City, determines that
it is in the best interest of the City
in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not
be redeemable for a period which
ends no later than the date which is
two (2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated
“Parks
and
Recreation

The City Record
Facilities Improvement Bond Anticipation Notes, Series 2009”; shall be
issued in such numbers and denominations as may be requested by the
Note
Purchaser
(hereinafter
defined); and shall be issued in
fully registered form (which may be
in a book entry only system) in
denominations of $5,000 or integral
multiples thereof. Interest shall be
payable semi-annually on the dates
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award; provided that if the Notes
mature on or before the end of the
twelfth
(12th) month
following
their date of issuance, interest on
the Notes shall be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note Registrar”); provided that the
Escrow Agent also shall act as paying agent for the Notes so long as
the Notes are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the
“Note Registrar Agreement”) providing for services relating to the registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of Notes on terms that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City. That approval
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Note Registrar
Agreement
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes
to the extent available and then
from other money lawfully available
and appropriated or to be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this Ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of

275

39
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
Ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B), Revised Code, the Director of Finance
may combine the Notes with other
bond anticipation notes of the City
into a single consolidated issue of
notes for purposes of their sale as
a single issue to be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation
Bond
Anticipation
Notes,
Series
2009.” The Notes shall contain a
summary
statement
of
purposes
encompassing the purpose for which
the Notes are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 11. Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
express upon their face the purpose
for which they are issued and that
they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Each
Note
shall
be
authenticated by the manual signature of an authorized officer of the
Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance. In accordance with Section
9.96 of the Revised Code and the
foregoing requirement that each
Note bear the manual signature of
an authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or of its Director
of Finance may be a facsimile. The
Notes shall bear the seal of the City,
which seal may be a facsimile seal.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s
Charter, the Director of Law shall
prepare the Notes and shall endorse
thereon his approval of the form and
correctness thereof by his manual or
facsimile signature.

40
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note
Purchaser”) in the principal amount
set forth in a certificate of award to
be executed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged,
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes.
Said tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of said year are certified, extended and collected. Said
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from said tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, and those funds, together
with the interest collected on the
same, shall be irrevocably pledged
for the payment of the principal and
interest of the Notes or the Bonds in
anticipation
of
which
they
are
issued, when and as the same falls
due; provided, however, that in each
year to the extent that revenues are
available from other sources for the
payment of the Notes and Bonds and
are appropriated for such purpose,
the amount of such direct tax upon
all of the taxable property in the
City may be reduced by the amount
of such revenues so available and
appropriated.
Section 15. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a
disclosure document (each, an “Official Statement”) is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
sale of the Notes or the Bonds, the

The City Record
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or
the Bonds, as the case may be, and
any necessary supplements and to
authorize the use and distribution of
each Official Statement and any supplements. The Mayor and the Director of Finance are authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in
their official capacities each Official
Statement
and
any
supplements
approved by them. Those officers
are, and each of them is, authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements as may,
in their judgment, be necessary or
appropriate. Those officers are also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final”
by the City within the meaning of
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”).
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for services for the
production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as
the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
under the SEC Rule, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information and operating data and
notices, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of the SEC
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to prepare, or cause to be prepared,
and to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Notes or the Bonds, as the ease
may be, in accordance with the SEC
Rule.
The
performance
of
that
agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual appropriation to meet costs the
City would be required to incur to
perform it. The Director of Finance
is further authorized and directed to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordi-

276

March 4, 2009
nance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Federal Tax Covenants. The City covenants that it
will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Code, (ii) be
treated other than as bonds to which
Section 103(a) of the Code applies,
or (iii) be treated other than as
bonds to which Section 54AA of the
Code applies, in the event the City
should elect pursuant to Section
54AA of the Code to have the Notes
and the Bonds treated as “Build
America Bonds,” and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds (other than “Build
America Bonds”) to be and to remain excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, (b)
it will not take or authorize to be
taken
any
actions
that
would
adversely affect that exclusion, if
applicable, and (c) it, or persons acting for it, will, among other acts of
compliance, (i) apply the proceeds
of the Notes and the Bonds to the
governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the yield on
investment property acquired with
those proceeds, (iii) make timely
and adequate payments to the federal
government,
(iv)
maintain
books and records and make calculations and reports, and (v) refrain
from certain uses of those proceeds,
and,
as
applicable,
of
property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of
that interest under the Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds (other than “Build
America Bonds”) from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.

March 4, 2009
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, an election under
Section 54AA of the Code to treat
some or all of the Notes and the
Bonds as “Build America Bonds,” or
any of the elections provided for in
Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or
available under Section 148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring;
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting
compliance
with
requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense of such
compliance,
reducing
the
rebate
amount or payments or penalties, or
making
payments
of
special
amounts in lieu of making computations to determine, or paying,
excess earnings as rebate, or obviating those amounts or payments, as
determined by that officer, which
action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the Notes and the
Bonds, and (c) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes and the
Bonds, setting forth the reasonable
expectations of the City regarding
the amount and use of all the proceeds of the Notes and the Bonds,
the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they are based, and
other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 19. Bond Insurance and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain a
commitment
for
municipal
bond
insurance issued by a nationally recognized municipal bond insurance
company
insuring
the
payment
when due of the principal of and
interest on all or any portion of the
Bonds, request a rating on the
Bonds from one or more nationally
recognized rating organizations, and
do any and all things and take any
and all actions required to secure a
policy of municipal bond insurance
and/or a rating or ratings on the
Bonds including, but not limited to,
the entering into of agreements on
behalf of the City necessary to
secure a policy of municipal bond
insurance. Those agreements may
be in separate documents or included in a Bond Purchase Agreement,
a registrar agreement or a Certificate of Award, or any combination,
and contain terms not materially
inconsistent with this Ordinance.

The City Record
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure that insurance or
obtain those ratings is authorized
and approved, and the Director of
Finance is authorized to provide for
the payment of any such amounts
from the proceeds of the Bonds to
the extent available and otherwise
from any other funds lawfully available that are appropriated or shall
be appropriated for that purpose.
Section 20. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial
advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required
by this Ordinance to be determined
by the Director of Finance. The
Director of Finance may rely on the
written advice of any financial advisor so retained. Any financial advisor employed under the authority of
this Ordinance shall be disinterested in the transaction and be independent of the Original Purchaser or
any other party interested in the
transaction.
Section 21. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance, were taken, and
that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in those formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 22. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required by law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections
28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 23. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 24. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent

277

41
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 25. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 26. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 244-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
Bonds in the maximum principal
amount of $6,225,000 for the purpose
of providing funds for public improvements of streets and municipal
properties and easements in residential neighborhoods and to pay all
expenses
incurred
in
connection
with the issuance of the Bonds; to
authorize agreements with respect
to the Bonds; and to authorize the
issuance of Notes in anticipation of
such Bonds.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Six Million Two Hundred and Twenty-Five
Thousand Dollars ($6,225,000) (the
“Bonds”) to finance the cost of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has cer-

42
tified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is twenty (20)
years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance thereunder of unvoted general obligations of the City and the
General Bond Ordinance was passed
in contemplation of this Ordinance
and other ordinances authorizing
the issuance of bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to pay the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1, which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Six Million Two Hundred
and Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars
($6,225,000) for the purpose of providing funds for public improvements of streets and municipal properties and easements in residential
neighborhoods by opening, widening, grading, draining, curbing and
paving
designated
streets,
constructing sidewalks, curbs and gutters
and
driveway
approaches,
installing storm and sanitary sewers, water lines and storm drainage
facilities
as
necessary
and
installing street lighting and signs,
signals, markings and other devices
for traffic control together with the
provision of all necessary and incidental appurtenances in all cases,
acquiring real estate and interests
in real estate, including easements
necessary for such purpose, together with the payment of all associated preliminary costs and costs of
site clearance, and to pay all
expenses
incurred
in
connection
with the issuance of the Bonds,
including any financing costs within the meaning of Revised Code Section 133.01(K), and such other costs
of the foregoing permanent improvements that may be financed with
the proceeds of securities as permitted by Revised Code Section
133.15(B) and as otherwise permitted by law; and to authorize the
issuance of notes in anticipation of
such Bonds.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections

The City Record
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance in the principal amount
and for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated
“Residential
Neighborhood
Improvement Bonds, Series 2009.”
The Bonds shall be issued in one lot
as fully registered Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or any integral
multiple thereof. The Bonds shall be
numbered as determined by the
Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated their
date of issuance, or such other date,
but not later than December 31,
2009, specified in the certificate of
award providing for the final terms
of the Bonds and the sale of the
bonds and signed by the Director of
Finance in accordance with this
Ordinance
(the
“Certificate
of
Award”). The Bonds shall bear
interest at the rate or rates per year
specified
in
the
Certificate
of
Award; provided that if all the
Bonds bear interest at the same rate
per year, then such rate shall not
exceed eight percent (8%) per year,
and if the Bonds bear interest at
more than one rate per year, then
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed seven and one-half percent
(7.5%) per year. Interest on the
Bonds shall be payable, until the
principal amount is paid, semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of
each year or on the days specified
in the Certificate of Award as the
dates on which interest on the
Bonds shall be payable (the “Interest
Payment
Dates”),
beginning
June 1, 2009 or on such other Interest Payment Date specified in the
Certificate of Award as the first
Interest Payment Date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor, the Director of Finance may
determine
in
the
Certificate
of
Award that it is in the best interests of the City to elect that some
or all of the Bonds be issued as
“Build America Bonds,” pursuant to
the provisions of Section 1531 of P.L.
111-5, the “American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act of 2009,” amending Section 54AA of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 as amended
(the “Code”). If the Bonds are issued
as “Build America Bonds,” the Bonds
shall bear interest at the rate or
rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award; provided that if
all the Build America Bonds bear
interest at the same rate per year,
then such rate shall not exceed nine
percent (9%) per year, and if the
Build America Bonds bear interest
at more than one rate per year, then
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Build
America Bond to which a rate
applies) shall not exceed eight and
one-half percent (8.5%) per year.
The Bonds shall mature on December 1 in twenty (20) substantially equal annual installments,
beginning December 1, 2010, or
according to the schedule set forth
in the Certificate of Award, provided that (i) each principal payment
shall occur on an Interest Payment

278

March 4, 2009
Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be no earlier than December 1, 2009 and no
later than August 1, 2011, (iii) the
final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than twenty (20)
years from that date which is
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount
thereof
shall
be
payable in annual installments such
that the total principal and interest
payments on the Bonds in any fiscal year in which principal is
payable is not more than three times
the amount of those payments in
any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on
which
the
principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a) Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys, to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sink-

March 4, 2009
ing Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements) or
purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole or in
part on any date, in integral multiples of $5,000, on the optional redemption dates and at the redemption prices (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount redeemed) specified in the Certificate
of Award, plus, in each case, accrued interest to the redemption
date. The first optional redemption
date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment Date, and the highest redemption price shall not be greater than
102%
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed plus accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor, the Director of Finance may
determine
in
the
Certificate
of
Award that it is in the best interests of the City for some or all of
the Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar. That notice shall specify
the redemption date and the principal amount of each maturity of
Bonds to be redeemed, and shall be
given at least forty-five (45) days
prior to the redemption date or such
shorter period as shall be acceptable
to the Registrar. In the event that
notice of redemption shall have been
given by the Registrar to the registered owners as hereinafter provid-

The City Record
ed, there shall be deposited with the
Registrar on or prior to the redemption date, funds which, in addition
to any other moneys available therefor and held by the Registrar, will
be sufficient to redeem at the
redemption price thereof, plus interest accrued to the redemption date,
all of the redeemable Bonds for
which notice of redemption has been
given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided
in the Certificate of Award, the City
may elect to purchase Bonds called
for optional redemption in lieu of
redeeming those Bonds. That election shall be exercised by written
direction
from
the
Director
of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. That written direction shall state whether all or less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased by the City in lieu of
redemption, shall identify the Bonds
to be purchased by their maturity
date and shall specify the principal
amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased in lieu of redemption, the
amount of each maturity to be purchased shall be in amounts of $5,000
or integral multiples of $5,000. Any
Bonds called for optional redemption that are not to be purchased
shall be redeemed in accordance
with their redemption provisions.
The purchase price of the Bonds
to be purchased in lieu of redemption shall be equal to the principal
of, any accrued but unpaid interest
on, and any premium that would
have been payable on the Bonds on
the redemption date if the Bonds
had
been
optionally
redeemed
instead of being purchased. No
notice of the purchase in lieu of
redemption is required to be given
to the owners of the Bonds in addition to the notice of redemption
required by this Ordinance. The
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying agent shall not purchase Bonds
if sufficient moneys have not been
deposited with the Escrow Agent or
Registrar, as paying agent, by the
City for the purpose. On or prior to
the scheduled date for optional
redemption, the City may rescind its
direction to purchase the Bonds in
lieu of redemption by written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar and the Escrow Agent. In
the event that the direction to purchase is rescinded, the Bonds shall
be redeemed on the redemption date
set forth in the notice of redemption
delivered to the owners of the Bonds
and in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of

279

43
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as though it were a separate
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption. then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption (or such period specified in the Certificate of Award), to
the registered owner of each Bond
subject to redemption in whole or in
part
at
the
registered
owner’s
address shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at
the close of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing
and to any municipal bond insurance company that has issued a policy insuring some or all of the
Bonds. Failure to receive notice by
mail or any defect in that notice
regarding any Bond, however, shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any
Bond.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph, the Bonds and portions
thereof called for redemption shall
become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption of all of the Bonds and portions
thereof to be redeemed, including
interest accrued to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail, then from and after the
redemption date those Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall cease to bear interest and
no longer shall be considered to be
outstanding. If that money shall not
be so available on the redemption
date, or that notice shall not have
been deposited in the mail, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall

44
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held by the Registrar for the redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners and shall be
paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those
Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying agent. Principal shall be payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
date provided in the Agreement
authorized in Section 3 (the “Record
Date”).
Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are held
by a Depository in a book entry system (as described in Section 3), debt
charges on the Bonds will be payable
in lawful money of the United States
by wire transfer to the Depository
made by the Escrow Agent on each
Interest Payment Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance, except for the third paragraph of Section 13(a) (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 (pertaining generally to the periods during which the City is not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), will apply
to the Bonds. Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance
is included as a part of this Ordinance as fully as if restated in this
Ordinance. Words and terms not otherwise defined in this Ordinance
shall have the same meaning as set
forth in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by
the City’s Director of Finance. In
accordance with Section 9.96 of the
Revised Code and the foregoing
requirement that each Bond bear the
manual signature of an authorized
officer of the Trustee, either or both
of the signatures of the City’s Mayor
or of its Director of Finance may be
a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may
be a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the

The City Record
Director of Law shall prepare the
Bonds and shall endorse thereon his
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his manual or facsimile
signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds
(the
“Registrar”).
The
Escrow Agent shall also act as paying agent for the Bonds so long as
the Bonds are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Registrar
and the Escrow Agent (the “Agreement”), approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, providing for services relating to the
registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of the Bonds on terms that
are approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City. That
approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Agreement by the Director of Finance.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
Agreement from the proceeds of the
Bonds to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). The person in whose name a
Bond is registered on the Bond Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.

280

March 4, 2009
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
Ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the

March 4, 2009
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to the
extent necessary or required to enter
into any agreements determined necessary in connection with the book
entry system for the Bonds, after
determining that the signing thereof
will not endanger the funds or securities of the City and after the approval of the form of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Bonds and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance, the written advice
of a financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 20 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase
the Bonds, including: the principal
amount of the Bonds, final purchase
price (which shall be not less than
97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of
delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal installments are payable (at
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Bonds (if different from those set
forth in Section 2) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance
to be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,

The City Record
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest
of the City to establish the terms
and requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, procedures,
and conditions for the delivery of
the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices
and certificates, to cause a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Bonds
to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and
other documents and instruments
and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated
by this Ordinance and to take all
steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement between the
City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director
of Law, setting forth the terms and
conditions on which the City agrees
to sell the Bonds and the Original
Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds
on terms consistent with this Ordinance and not substantially adverse
to the City and that are approved by
the Director of Finance on behalf of
the City, all of which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing
of the Bond Purchase Agreement or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement
by
the
Director
of
Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in
this Ordinance and as may be provided in or pursuant to the Certificate of Award, are in the best interest of the City and in compliance
with all legal requirements.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B), Revised Code, the Director of Finance
may combine the Bonds with other
bonds into a single consolidated
issue of bonds for purposes of their
sale as a single issue to be designated
“Various
Purpose
General
Obligation Bonds, Series 2009” or
such other designation as may be
set forth in the Certificate of Award.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is hereby levied
on all the taxable property in the
City, in addition to all other taxes,
a direct tax annually during the
period the Bonds are outstanding, in
an amount sufficient to provide for
the payment of that interest, when
and as the same shall fall due, and
also to discharge the principal of
the Bonds at maturity, which tax
shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by
Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.

281

45
The tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of those years are certified, extended and collected. The
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as
provided pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance and those funds,
together with the interest collected
on the same, shall be irrevocably
pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds
when and as the same fall due; provided, however, that, subject to the
provisions of Section 8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in each year to
the extent that revenues are available from other sources for the payment of the Bonds and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount
of such tax shall be reduced by the
amount of such revenues so available and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25 and 5705.51 of the
Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds
are issued. Accrued interest and any
premium received from the sale of
the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund to be
applied to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying

46
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations of the United States certified
by, an independent public accounting firm of national reputation or
such other qualified organization,
to be of such maturities and interest payment dates and to bear such
interest, without further investment
or reinvestment of either the principal amount thereof or the interest
earnings therefrom (likewise to be
held in trust and committed, except
as hereinafter provided), as will be
sufficient, together with moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the
payment, at their maturities or
redemption
dates,
of
all
debt
charges on the Bonds to their date
of maturity or redemption, as the
case may be, or if default in such
payment shall have occurred on
such date then to the date of the
tender of such payment; provided,
that
if
any
Bonds
are
to
be
redeemed prior to the maturity
thereof, notice of such redemption
shall have been duly given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the
Trustee shall have been duly made
for the giving of such notice. Any
moneys held by the Escrow Agent
in accordance with the provisions
of this Section shall be invested by
the Escrow Agent in direct obligations of the United States of America maturing, or redeemable at the
option of the holder, at times and
in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt charges on the Bonds,
as directed by the Director of
Finance. Any income or interest
earned by, or increment to, the
investments held under this Section
shall, to the extent determined from
time to time by the Escrow Agent
to be in excess of the amount
required to be held by it for the
purposes of this Section, be transferred at the time of such determination as provided in Section 17(a)
of the General Bond Ordinance for
unclaimed funds held by a Paying
Agent. In the event of nonpresentment of any Bond as described in
Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section 17(a) for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent.

The City Record
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purposes set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Six Million Two Hundred and Twenty-Five
Thousand Dollars ($6,225,000) (the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth
in a certificate providing for the
final terms of the Notes and the sale
of the Notes and signed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”).
Section 10. Term of the Notes. The
Notes shall bear interest at such
rate, not exceeding seven percent
(7%) per year, as may be fixed by
the Director of Finance of the City
in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall
be
dated
their
date
of
issuance; shall mature on the date
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five (5) years from such date of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of the financial
advisor of the City, determines that
it is in the best interest of the City
in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not
be redeemable for a period which
ends no later than the date which is
two (2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated “Residential Neighborhood
Improvement
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 2009”; shall be issued
in such numbers and denominations
as may be requested by the Note
Purchaser
(hereinafter
defined);
and shall be issued in fully registered form (which may be in a book
entry only system) in denominations of $5,000 or integral multiples
thereof. Interest shall be payable
semi-annually on the dates set forth
in the Note Certificate of Award;
provided that if the Notes mature on
or before the end of the twelfth
(12th) month following their date of
issuance, interest on the Notes shall
be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note Registrar”); provided that the
Escrow Agent also shall act as paying agent for the Notes so long as
the Notes are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the
“Note Registrar Agreement”) providing for services relating to the registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of Notes on terms that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City. That approval
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Note Registrar
Agreement
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes
to the extent available and then
from other money lawfully available
and appropriated or to be appropriated for that purpose.

282

March 4, 2009
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this Ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
Ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B), Revised Code, the Director of Finance
may combine the Notes with other
bond anticipation notes of the City
into a single consolidated issue of
notes for purposes of their sale as

March 4, 2009
a single issue to be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation
Bond
Anticipation
Notes,
Series
2009.” The Notes shall contain a
summary
statement
of
purposes
encompassing the purpose for which
the Notes are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 11. Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
express upon their face the purpose
for which they are issued and that
they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Each
Note
shall
be
authenticated by the manual signature of an authorized officer of the
Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance. In accordance with Section
9.96 of the Revised Code and the
foregoing requirement that each
Note bear the manual signature of
an authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or of its Director
of Finance may be a facsimile. The
Notes shall bear the seal of the City,
which seal may be a facsimile seal.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s
Charter, the Director of Law shall
prepare the Notes and shall endorse
thereon his approval of the form and
correctness thereof by his manual or
facsimile signature.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note
Purchaser”) in the principal amount
set forth in a certificate of award to
be executed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged,
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax
annually not less than that which
would have been levied if bonds had
been issued therefor without the
prior issue of the Notes.
Said tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,

The City Record
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of said year are certified, extended and collected. Said
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from said tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, and those funds, together
with the interest collected on the
same, shall be irrevocably pledged
for the payment of the principal and
interest of the Notes or the Bonds in
anticipation
of
which
they
are
issued, when and as the same falls
due; provided, however, that in each
year to the extent that revenues are
available from other sources for the
payment of the Notes and Bonds and
are appropriated for such purpose,
the amount of such direct tax upon
all of the taxable property in the
City may be reduced by the amount
of such revenues so available and
appropriated.
Section 15. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a
disclosure document (each, an “Official Statement”) is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
sale of the Notes or the Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or
the Bonds, as the case may be, and
any necessary supplements and to
authorize the use and distribution of
each Official Statement and any supplements. The Mayor and the Director of Finance are authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in
their official capacities each Official
Statement
and
any
supplements
approved by them. Those officers
are, and each of them is, authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements as may,
in their judgment, be necessary or
appropriate. Those officers are also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final”
by the City within the meaning of
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”).
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for services for the
production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as
the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
under the SEC Rule, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information and operating data and
notices, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of the SEC
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to prepare, or cause to be prepared,
and to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, a contin-

283

47
uing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Notes or the Bonds, as the ease
may be, in accordance with the SEC
Rule.
The
performance
of
that
agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual appropriation to meet costs the
City would be required to incur to
perform it. The Director of Finance
is further authorized and directed to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Federal Tax Covenants.
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the Notes
and the Bonds in such manner and
to such extent as may be necessary
so that (a) the Notes and the Bonds
will not (i) constitute private activity bonds, arbitrage bonds or hedge
bonds under Sections 141, 148 or 149
of the Code, (ii) be treated other
than as bonds to which Section
103(a) of the Code applies, or (iii)
be treated other than as bonds to
which Section 54AA of the Code
applies, in the event the City should
elect pursuant to Section 54AA of
the Code to have the Notes and the
Bonds treated as “Build America
Bonds,” and (b) the interest thereon
will not be treated as an item of tax
preference under Section 57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds (other than “Build
America Bonds”) to be and to
remain excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, (b)
it will not take or authorize to be
taken
any
actions
that
would
adversely affect that exclusion, if
applicable, and (c) it, or persons acting for it, will, among other acts of
compliance, (i) apply the proceeds
of the Notes and the Bonds to the
governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the yield on
investment property acquired with
those proceeds, (iii) make timely

48
and adequate payments to the federal
government,
(iv)
maintain
books and records and make calculations and reports, and (v) refrain
from certain uses of those proceeds,
and,
as
applicable,
of
property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of
that interest under the Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds (other than “Build
America Bonds”) from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer
of the City having responsibility
for issuance of the Notes and the
Bonds is hereby authorized (a) to
make or effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent,
approval, or waiver on behalf of the
City with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds as the City is permitted
or required to make or give under
the federal income tax laws, including, without limitation thereto, an
election under Section 54AA of the
Code to treat some or all of the
Notes and the Bonds as “Build
America Bonds,” or any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring; enhancing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon
or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense of such
compliance, reducing the rebate
amount or payments or penalties, or
making
payments
of
special
amounts in lieu of making computations to determine, or paying,
excess earnings as rebate, or obviating those amounts or payments,
as
determined
by
that
officer,
which action shall be in writing
and signed by the officer, (b) to
take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make
payments,
and
make
or
give
reports, covenants and certifications of and on behalf of the City,
as may be appropriate to assure the
exclusion of interest from gross
income and the intended tax status
of the Notes and the Bonds, and (c)
to give one or more appropriate certificates of the City, for inclusion
in the transcript of proceedings for
the Notes and the Bonds, setting
forth the reasonable expectations of
the City regarding the amount and
use of all the proceeds of the Notes
and the Bonds, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on and the
tax status of the Notes and the
Bonds.

The City Record
Section 19. Bond Insurance and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain a
commitment
for
municipal
bond
insurance issued by a nationally recognized municipal bond insurance
company
insuring
the
payment
when due of the principal of and
interest on all or any portion of the
Bonds, request a rating on the
Bonds from one or more nationally
recognized rating organizations, and
do any and all things and take any
and all actions required to secure a
policy of municipal bond insurance
and/or a rating or ratings on the
Bonds including, but not limited to,
the entering into of agreements on
behalf of the City necessary to
secure a policy of municipal bond
insurance. Those agreements may
be in separate documents or included in a Bond Purchase Agreement,
a registrar agreement or a Certificate of Award, or any combination,
and contain terms not materially
inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure that insurance or
obtain those ratings is authorized
and approved, and the Director of
Finance is authorized to provide for
the payment of any such amounts
from the proceeds of the Bonds to
the extent available and otherwise
from any other funds lawfully available that are appropriated or shall
be appropriated for that purpose.
Section 20. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial
advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required
by this Ordinance to be determined
by the Director of Finance. The
Director of Finance may rely on the
written advice of any financial advisor so retained. Any financial advisor employed under the authority of
this Ordinance shall be disinterested in the transaction and be independent of the Original Purchaser or
any other party interested in the
transaction.
Section 21. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance, were taken, and
that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in those formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the Revised Code.
Section 22. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required by law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is hereby represented and recit-

284

March 4, 2009
ed, that the provisions of Sections
28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 23. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 24. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 25. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 26. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

March 4, 2009
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 245-09.
By Council Members Mitchell and
Pierce Scott.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the 2009 Hudson Relays,
on April 25, 2009, sponsored by Case
Western Reserve University.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the 2009 Hudson
Relays sponsored by Case Western
Reserve, on April 25, 2009, starting
at “The Rock;” next to Fribley, near
the bottom of the elephant steps; in
front of Carlton Commons, top of
stairs; top of Edgehill at Overlook;
in front of the Greenhouse Restaurant; corner of Euclid and Adelbert
(runner must pass baton after crossing Euclid, in front of Severance
Hall); in front of the Peter B. Lewis
building, corner of Bellflower and
Ford; just past the driveway of the
tiny lot at the southeastern edge of
the Northside Residential Village on
Juniper Road; in front of Pierce
house in the Northside Residential
Village; in front of Clark Hall on
the Mather Quad; back at “The
Rock”; President’s Last Lap Only;
the last runner (President) receives
the baton at the rock by Adelbert
hall and runs into the Quad up the
Pardee side and around the back to
the rock down the Yost side; provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all
liability
resulting
from
the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 246-09.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to amend
City Contract No. 60859 with ADT

The City Record
Security Services, Inc. to provide for
professional security services for
Cleveland City Council for a period
of two years beginning in March,
2009 and to provide for the purchase
of any necessary software and
equipment for needed for operation
and maintenance of City Council’s
security system.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to amend City Contract No 60859 with ADT Security
Services, Inc. to provide for professional security services, including
maintenance services, necessary to
provide office security for Cleveland
City Council for a period of two
years, beginning in March, 2009.
This amendment further authorizes
the purchase of any necessary software and equipment needed to operate and maintain said security system.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract authorized in Section 1
above shall be paid from Fund No.
01 SF 001.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 247-09.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Pruitt and Wilkes.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into an
agreement with the African American Music Association, Inc for the
Basketball Education and Recreation Program through the use of
Wards 20, 1 and 2 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into an agreement with the African American
Music Association, Inc for the Basketball Education and Recreation
Program for the public purpose of
providing educational and recreational activities for city of Cleveland youth through the use of
Wards 20, 1 and 2 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $8,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.

285

49
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 235-09.
By Council Members Brady, Keane,
Kelley, Sweeney, Cleveland, Polensek, Cimperman, Coats, Pierce Scott,
Westbrook, Mitchell, Dow, Zone,
Brancatelli, Wilkes, Pruitt, Conwell,
Cummins, Johnson and Reed.
An emergency resolution urging
the United States Congress to pass
the Employee Free Choice Act to
protect and preserve for America’s
workers their freedom to choose for
themselves whether or not to form
a union.
Whereas, in 1935, the United States
established, by law, that workers
must be free to form unions; and
Whereas, the freedom to form or
join a union is internationally recognized by the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights as a fundamental human right; and
Whereas, freedom of choice to join
with others and bargain for better
wages and benefits is essential to
economic opportunity and good living standards; and
Whereas, unions benefit communities by strengthening living standards, stabilizing tax bases, promoting equal treatment and enhancing civic participation; and
Whereas, states in which more
people are union members have
higher wages, better benefits and
better schools; and
Whereas, unions help raise workers’ pay and narrow the income gap
for
minorities
and
women,
by
increasing median weekly earnings
by 31 percent for women, 36 percent
for African Americans, 46 percent
for Latinos and 8 percent for Asian
Americans; and
Whereas, union workers are more
likely to have health coverage and
guaranteed defined benefit pensions
(80 percent of private-sector union
workers have employer-provided health
insurance, as compared to only 49
percent of nonunion workers, and 68
percent of union workers have
defined-benefit pension plans, as
compared to 14 percent of nonunion
workers); and
Whereas, workers across the nation are routinely denied the freedom to form unions and bargain for
a better life; and

50
Whereas, 25 percent of private-sector employers illegally fire at least
one worker for union organizing
activity; and
Whereas, 77 percent of the public
believes it is important to have
strong laws protecting the freedom
of workers to make their own decision about having a union, while 60
percent of workers would join a
union if they had the chance; and
Whereas, employers often refuse
to bargain fairly after workers form
a union by dragging out first contract bargaining for up to two years
in 45 percent of successful campaigns; and
Whereas, each year millions of
dollars are spent to thwart workers’
efforts to form unions and 92 percent
of
private-sector
employers
force employees to attend mandatory anti-union meetings; and
Whereas, when the right of workers to form a union is violated,
wages fall, race and gender pay
gaps widen, workplace discrimination increases and job safety standards disappear; and
Whereas, a worker’s fundamental
right to choose a union free from
coercion and intimidation is a public issue that requires public policy
solutions, including legislative remedies; and
Whereas,
the
Employee
Free
Choice Act received majority support in both houses of Congress in
2007 but was defeated by a minority of senators; and
Whereas,
the
Employee
Free
Choice Act will safeguard workers’
ability to make their own decisions
about forming a union, provide for
first contract mediation and arbitration and establish meaningful penalties when employers violate workers’ rights; and
Whereas, this Council supports
the Employee Free Choice Act,
which would authorize the National
Labor Relations Board to certify a
union as the bargaining representative when a majority of employees
voluntarily sign authorization cards
designating that union to represent
them; provide for first contract
mediation
and
arbitration;
and
establish meaningful penalties for
violations of a worker’s freedom to
choose a union; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
Congress to pass the Employee Free
Choice Act to protect and preserve
for America’s workers their freedom
to choose for themselves whether or
not to form a union.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit a
copy of this resolution to the United States House of Representatives,
the United States Senate, Communications Workers of America, and
Mayor Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and

The City Record
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 248-09.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 6608-12 Cedar Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X,
D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
KBL, Inc., Stanley E. Stein, Rcvr.,
DBA Jack’s Bar, 6608-12 Cedar Avenue, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number
4529522 to R and K Tavern Investments, Inc., 6608-12 Cedar Avenue,
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44103,
Permanent
Number
7147900; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
KBL, Inc., Stanley E. Stein, Rcvr.,
DBA Jack’s Bar, 6608-12 Cedar Avenue, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number
4529522 to R and K Tavern Invest-

286

March 4, 2009
ments, Inc., 6608-12 Cedar Avenue,
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44103,
Permanent
Number
7147900; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 249-09.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of Liquor License
of a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit
to 6212 Superior Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a transfer of Liquor License of a C2, C2X
and D6 Liquor Permit from Thelma
Matthews, 12430 Arlington Avenue,
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44108,
Permanent
Number
5641218 to Goodies Candy Landy,
LLP, DBA Goodies Candy Land, 6212
Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44103, Permanent Number 3275380;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

March 4, 2009
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a transfer of Liquor License of a C2, C2X
and D6 Liquor Permit from Thelma
Matthews, 12430 Arlington Avenue,
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44108,
Permanent
Number
5641218 to Goodies Candy Landy,
LLP, DBA Goodies Candy Land,
6212 Superior Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44103,
Permanent
Number
3275380, and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 255-09.
By Council Members Kelley, Polensek, Zone, Cummins, Keane, Sweeney, Westbrook, Cleveland, Pruitt,
Brady, Reed, Dow, Brancatelli and
Coats.
An emergency resolution supporting the Cuyahoga County Board of
Commissioners’ and MMPI’s site
selection and encouraging quick
movement towards site control and
construction of the new Cleveland
Medical Mart and Convention Center.
Whereas, Greater Cleveland is
home to several nationally recognized hospitals; and
Whereas, the Greater Cleveland
area is home to many medical suppliers and manufacturers; and
Whereas, a Cleveland Medical
Mart and Convention Center would
capitalize on Cleveland’s tremendous healthcare industry and further Cleveland’s position as the
leader in this field; and
Whereas, Merchandise Mart Properties, Inc. (MMPI) is committed to
applying their extensive knowledge
and experience in the trade show

The City Record
and convention business to the
Cleveland area market; and
Whereas, the Cuyahoga County
Board of Commissioners passed a
quarter of a cent sales tax increase
to collect funds to support the development of a new state-of-the-art
medical mart and convention center;
and
Whereas, MMPI has worked diligently to identify ways in which the
Medical Mart and Convention Center
could be built within the anticipated funds provided by the .25% tax
increase passed in July, 2007; and
Whereas, MMPI engaged a team
of architects, estimators, engineers
and consultants to evaluate all plausible sites; and
Whereas, these exhaustive studies
have concluded that positioning the
new Cleveland Medical Mart and
Convention Center at the site of the
existing convention center is the
most advantageous location for this
premier facility; and
Whereas, this Council welcomes
the addition of this economic engine
to our region; and
Whereas, this Council welcomes
the adaptive reuse of our historic
public auditorium and convention
center facility; and
Whereas, this Council welcomes
MMPI to the Greater Cleveland Community; and
Whereas, this Council encourages
expedited, good-faith negotiations
with our partners at the Cuyahoga
County Board of Commissioners to
move towards site control and construction of the new Cleveland Medical Mart and Convention Center;
and
Whereas, this Council is committed to being an active partner in
this process; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the Cuyahoga County Board of
Commissioners’ and MMPI’s site
selection
and
encourages
quick
movement towards site control and
construction of the new Cleveland
Medical Mart and Convention Center.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners, MMPI, and Mayor Frank Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

287

51
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY ORDINANCE
Ord. No. 142-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make
appropriations for the current expenses of the City of Cleveland for the
year 2009.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance; when amended
as follows:
1. In Section 1, strike lines 11, 12,
13 and 14 in their entirety and
insert:
“The sum of Six Hundred Seventy
Six Million Two Hundred Forty Nine
Thousand One Hundred Thirty Five
Dollars
($676,249,135)
from
the
Enterprise Funds;
The sum of Ten Million Four Hundred Forty Four Thousand Eight
Hundred
Eighty
Three
Dollars
($10,444,883) from the Trust and
Agency Funds;”.
2. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND”, at “Judicial Branch” strike
“42,388,803” and insert “42,413,296”.
3. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “Executive Branch” at
“Department of Public Safety” strike
“317,283,854” and insert “317,333,854”;
at “Department of Public Health”
strike “5,997,154” and insert “5,947,154”;
at
“Support
Functions”
strike
“45,862,240” and insert “45,837,747”;
and at “Total Executive Branch”
strike
“492,451,362”
and
insert
“492,426,869”.
4. In Section 1, at “Enterprise
Funds” strike “675,849,135” and insert
“676,249,135”; and at “Trust and
Agency Funds” strike “10,045,319”
and insert “10,444,883”.
5. In Section 1, at “TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR 2009”, strike
“1,388,152,597” and insert “1,388,952,161”.
6. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND”, at “JUDICIAL BRANCH”, at
“Municipal Court - Clerk’s Division”,
strike “14,887,919” and insert “14,912,412”;
at “I Personnel and Related Expenses” strike “9,576,452” and insert
“9,564,254”, and at “II Other Expenses” strike “5,311,467” and insert
“5,348,158”; and at “TOTAL JUDICIAL BRANCH” strike “42,388,803”
and insert “42,413,296”.
7. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND”, at “DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY”, at “Division of Dog
Pound”, strike “1,040,561” and insert
“1,090,561”; at “II Other Expenses”
strike “214,811” and insert “264,811”;
and at “TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF
PUBLIC SAFETY”, strike “317,283,854”
and insert “317,333,854”.
8. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND”, at “DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH”, at “Division of Environment”, strike “1,294,270” and insert “1,244,270”; at “II Other Expenses” strike “250,611” and insert
“200,611”; and at “TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH” strike
“5,997,154” and insert “5,947,154”.
9. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” following “TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE”, at “Department of Law”, strike “8,949,949” and
insert “9,079,949”, at “II Other Expenses”, strike “1,867,978” and insert
“1,997,978”, and at “TOTAL FINANCE
AND LEGAL ADMINISTRATION” strike
“23,556,867” and insert “23,686,867”.

The City Record

52
10. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “NONDEPARTMENTAL”
at “Other Administrative”, strike
“17,290,910” and insert “17,136,417”;
and at “II Other Expenses”, strike
“17,290,910” and insert “17,136,417”;
and at “TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL”, strike “19,517,360” and insert
“19,362,867”.
11. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “TOTAL SUPPORT FUNCTIONS”, strike “45,862,240” and insert
“45,837,747”.
12. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “TOTAL EXECUTIVE
BRANCH”, strike “492,451,362” and
insert “492,426,869”.
13. In Section 1, at “ENTERPRISE
FUNDS”
at
“DEPARTMENT
OF
PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES” at “Division of Convention
Center & Stadium-Stadium”, strike
“21,354,162” and insert “21,754,162”,
and at “II Other Expenses” strike
“21,354,162” and insert “21,754,162”; at
“TOTAL PARKS, RECREATION, &
PROPERTIES”, strike “43,388,667”
and
insert
“43,788,667”;
and
at
“TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS” strike
“675,849,135” and insert “676,249,135”.
14. In Section 1, at “AGENCY
FUND”, at “Central Collection Agency”,
strike “10,045,319” and insert “10,444,883”,
at “I Personnel and Related Expenses” strike “6,333,138” and insert
“6,732,702”, and at “TOTAL AGENCY
FUND”, strike “10,045,319” and insert
“10,444,883”.
Without
objection,
amendments
agreed to.

requirement contracts of recycled or
virgin asphalt concrete, for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Service and the various divisions
of the Department of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Public Utilities, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service, Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 51-09.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 732-07,
passed June 11, 2007, relating to
applying for and accepting grants
and gifts from public and private
entities to facilitate sustainability
projects, and authorizing various
contracts to implement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 84-09.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to employ one or more computer software vendors to acquire
or renew Cisco maintenance and
support, including Cisco Smartnet,
for networking and telecommunica-

SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1769-08.
By Council Members Brady, Zone
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more

March 4, 2009
tion software and equipment; and
authorizing the purchase by one or
more requirement contracts of Cisco
hardware and software products,
including those used for networking and telecommunication and for
the phone system, and maintenance
and technical support, for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of one
year, with two one-year options to
renew, the second of which is exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 88-09.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brady and Sweeney (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
Simms Street N.W. (50 feet wide),
Sanders Court N.W. and turnouts
(width varies) and Kramer Court
N.W. (15 feet wide).
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committees on Public Service, City Planning;
Adoption
recommended
by
Committees on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

APPROPRIATION FOR THE YEAR 2009
(SECOND READING EMERGENCY ORDINANCE)
ORDINANCE NO. 142-09
Ord. No. 142-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make appropriations for the current expenses of the City of Cleveland for the year 2009.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That to provide for the current expenses for the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009, the following sums be and they are hereby appropriated viz:
The sum of Five Hundred Forty One Million, Five Hundred One Thousand Six Hundred Eight Six Dollars
($541,501,686) from the General Fund;
The sum of Sixty Seven Million One Hundred Fifty Thousand Nine Hundred Twenty Five Dollars ($67,150,925)
from the Special Revenue Funds;
The sum of Twenty Nine Million Ninety Six Thousand Six Hundred Twenty One Dollars ($29,096,621) from the
Internal Service Funds;
The sum of Six Hundred Seventy Six Million Two Hundred Forty Nine Thousand One Hundred Thirty Five Dollars ($676,249,135) from the Enterprise Funds;
The sum of Ten Million Four Hundred Forty Four Thousand Eight Hundred Eighty Three Dollars ($10,444,883)
from the Trust and Agency Funds;
The sum of Sixty Four Million Five Hundred Eight Thousand Nine Hundred Eleven Dollars ($64,508,911) from
the Debt Service Fund;
All set forth in the Mayor's Estimate on file with Council and identified as File No. 142-09-A the aggregate
amount for each department as follows:

288

The City Record

March 4, 2009

53

GENERAL FUND
Legislative Branch
Judicial Branch
Executive Branch
Office of the Mayor
Department of Public Safety
Community Relations Board
Department of Consumer Affairs
Department of Public Service
Department of Parks, Recreation & Properties
Boxing and Wrestling Commission
Urban Planning & Development
Department of Public Health
Department of Aging
Support Functions
Transfers to Other Funds

$

6,661,520
42,413,296

TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH

$ 492,426,869
———————
———————

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$

Special Revenue Funds
Internal Service Funds
Enterprise Funds
Trust and Agency Funds
Debt Service Funds

———————
———————
$
67,150,925
29,096,621
676,249,135
10,444,883
64,508,911
———————

TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR 2009

$1,388,952,161

2,344,163
317,333,854
1,279,606
395,357
38,004,058
39,347,736
5,342
16,559,551
5,947,154
820,523
45,837,747
24,551,778
———————

541,501,686

GENERAL FUND
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
Council and Clerk of Council
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

6,661,520

4,905,458
1,756,062
––——————

TOTAL LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

$
6,661,520
––——————
––——————

JUDICIAL BRANCH
Municipal Court - Judicial Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

24,075,225

$

3,425,659

$

14,912,412

$ 21,185,670
2,889,555

Municipal Court - Housing Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

3,245,840
179,819

Municipal Court - Clerk’s Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

9,564,254
5,348,158
––——————
$
42,413,296
––——————
––——————

TOTAL JUDICIAL BRANCH

EXECUTIVE BRANCH
Office of the Mayor
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,344,163

$2,206,122
138,041
––——————

TOTAL OFFICE OF THE MAYOR

$
2,344,163
––——————
––——————

289

The City Record

54

March 4, 2009

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Public Safety Administration
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

II.

Other Expenses

II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

II.

Other Expenses

II.

92,000,474

$

23,431,238

$

1,090,561

$

15,426,319

3,126,496

Personnel and Related Expenses

$ 21,015,056

Other Expenses

2,416,182

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

825,750
264,811

Division of Correction
I.

$
$ 88,873,978

Division of Dog Pound
I.

182,100,803

10,472,623

Division of Emergency Medical Services
I.

$
$171,628,180

Division of Fire
I.

3,284,459

956,593

Division of Police
I.

$
2,327,866

Personnel and Related Expenses

$ 12,296,429

Other Expenses

3,129,890
––——————
$ 317,333,854
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD
Community Relations Board
I.
II.

$

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

1,279,606

1,184,820
94,786
––——————

TOTAL COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD

$
1,279,606
––——————
––——————

DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
Consumer Affairs
I.
II.

$

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

395,357

353,466
41,891
––——————
$
395,357
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE
Public Service Administration
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

I Personnel and Related Expenses

$

II Other Expenses

$

594,711

$

27,927,828

$

4,723,332

557,488
37,223

Division of Waste Collection and Disposal
I Personnel and Related Expenses

$ 15,089,532

II Other Expenses

12,838,296

Division of Engineering and Construction
II.

466,528

27,998

Division of Architecture

I.

$
438,530

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$

4,334,631
388,701

290

The City Record

March 4, 2009

Division of Traffic Engineering
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

55
$
$

4,291,660

3,088,308
1,203,352
––——————
$
38,004,058
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES
Parks, Recreation, and Properties Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

580,684
157,712

Division of Research, Planning, and Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

709,186
83,993

Division of Recreation
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

738,396

$

793,179

$

14,463,084

$

1,305,989

$

8,415,449

$

13,631,638

$ 10,226,133
4,236,951

Division of Parking Facilities-On Street
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,236,725
69,264

Division of Property Management
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,763,237
2,652,212

Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

8,734,075
4,897,563
––——————
$
39,347,736
––——————
––——————

TOTAL PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES

BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION
Boxing and Wrestling Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.

$
$

Other Expenses

5,342

5,342
-

TOTAL BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION

$
5,342
––——————
––——————

URBAN PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Division of Administrative Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Director’s Office
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Division of Real Estate
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Division of Neighborhood Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

$

653,525
81,773

$

390,670

$

218,850
185,000

$

475,175

$

735,298

$

390,670

$

403,850

$

475,175

––——————
$
2,004,993
––——————
––——————

TOTAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING
Building and Housing Dir. Office
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

291

$
$

1,521,459
327,960

1,849,419

The City Record

56

March 4, 2009

Division of Code Enforcement
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

6,229,273
218,714

Division of Construction Permit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,630,498
20,700

$

6,447,987

$

1,651,198

––——————
$
9,948,604
––——————
––——————

TOTAL BUILDING AND HOUSING

REGULATORY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Landmarks Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

177,762
5,401

Board of Building Standards and Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

112,484
8,539

Board of Zoning Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

185,997
13,361

$

2,500

Fair Campaign Finance Commission
II.
Other Expenses

$

183,163

$

121,023

$

199,358

$

2,500

––——————
$
506,044
––——————
––——————

TOTAL REGULATORY BOARDS

DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Economic Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

1,456,699

1,424,506
32,193
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT

$
1,456,699
––——————
––——————

URBAN PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Office of Equal Opportunity
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

II.

713,151

$

1,642,082

$

287,979

28,270

City Planning Commission
I.

$
684,881

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

1,542,883
99,199

Division of Harbors
I Personnel and Related Expenses

$

II Other Expenses

95,613
192,366
––——————

TOTAL URBAN PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT

$

16,559,551

––——————
––——————
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Public Health Administration
I.
II.

$

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

261,682

Division of Health
I.
II.

854,763

593,081

$

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$

2,062,159
1,323,214

292

3,385,373

The City Record

March 4, 2009

57

Division of Environment
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,043,659
200,611

Division of Air Quality
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

180,648
282,100

$

1,244,270

$

462,748

––——————
$
5,947,154
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

DEPARTMENT OF AGING
Department of Aging
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

820,523

680,304
140,219
––——————
$
820,523
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF AGING

SUPPORT FUNCTIONS
FINANCIAL AND LEGAL ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
Finance Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

865,900

793,502
72,398

Division of Accounts
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,350,015
635,486

Division of Assessments and Licenses
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,366,669
1,241,293

Division of Treasury
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

574,217
60,622

Division of Purchases and Supplies
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

548,516
43,668

Bureau of Internal Audit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

461,119
374,063

Division of Financial Reporting and Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,392,604
39,631

Information Systems Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,112,680
1,676,182

Information Tech & Planning
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

160,003
18,225

$

1,985,501

$

3,607,962

$

634,839

$

592,184

$

835,182

$

1,432,235

$

3,788,862

$

178,228

––——————
$
13,920,894
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

FINANCE AND LEGAL ADMINISTRATION
Office of Budget & Management-Budget Admin.
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$
$

666,874
19,150

293

686,024

The City Record

58

March 4, 2009

Department Law
I.
II.

$

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

9,079,949

7,081,971

Other Expenses

1,997,978
––——————
$
23,686,867
––——————
––——————

TOTAL FINANCE AND LEGAL ADMINISTRATION

PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
Office of Personnel
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

II.

1,824,983

$

963,030

589,553

Civil Service Commission
I.

$
1,235,430

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

556,837

Other Expenses

406,193
––——————
$
2,788,013
––——————
––——————

TOTAL PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION

NONDEPARTMENTAL
County Auditor Deductions
II.

Other Expenses

$

Other Administrative
II.

Other Expenses

$

2,226,450

$

17,136,417

2,226,450

$ 17,136,417
––——————

TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL

$
19,362,867
––——————
––——————
––——————
$
45,837,747
––——————
––——————

TOTAL SUPPORT FUNCTIONS

Transfers To Other Funds
II.
Other Expenses

$

24,551,778

$ 24,551,778

TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH

––——————
$ 492,426,869
––——————
––——————

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

––——————
$ 541,501,686
––——————
––——————
SPECIAL REVENUE FUND

Restricted Income Tax Fund
I.
II.

Capital
Debt Service

II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

27,874,213

$

2,000,000

$ 16,153,742

Other Expenses

11,720,471

Schools Recreation & Cultural Activities Fund
II.

37,276,712

26,198,000

Street Construction, Maintenance & Repair Fund
I.

$
$ 11,078,712

Other Expenses

$

2,000,000
––——————

TOTAL SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS

$
67,150,925
––——————
––——————

INTERNAL SERVICE FUND
Information Systems Services-Telephone Exchange
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$
II.
Other Expenses

294

$
1,222,525
5,464,122

6,686,647

The City Record

March 4, 2009

59

Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

6,177,074
12,606,898

Division of Printing and Reproduction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

931,832
1,820,040

City Storeroom and Central Warehouse
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

97,110
777,020

$

18,783,971

$

2,751,872

$

874,130

––——————
$
29,096,621
––——————
––——————

TOTAL INTERNAL SERVICE FUNDS

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
Utilities Administration
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

II.

Other Expenses

II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

II.

Other Expenses

II.

4,063,946

$

265,243,333

739,274

Personnel and Related Expenses

$ 81,536,963

Other Expenses

183,706,370

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

$

25,556,059

$

178,503,814

11,030,020

Other Expenses

14,526,039

Division of Cleveland Public Power
I.

$
3,324,672

Division of Water Pollution Control
I.

2,418,710

1,870,490

Division of Water
I.

$
548,220

Division of Fiscal Control
I.

2,593,415

617,385

Radio
I.

$
1,976,030

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

29,071,103
149,432,711
––——————
$ 478,379,277
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
Divisions of Cleveland Hopkins & Burke Lakefront
Airports - Operations
I.
II.

$

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

154,081,191

$ 29,452,418
124,628,773
––——————
$ 154,081,191
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES
Division of Cemeteries
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

II.

2,097,174

$

1,984,695

546,170

Golf Course Fund
I.

$
1,551,004

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$

1,116,047
868,648

295

The City Record

60

March 4, 2009

Division of Parking Facilities-Off Street Parking
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

II.

10,458,051

$

6,200,799

$

1,253,787

$

21,754,162

$

40,000

9,289,750

Division of Convention Center
I.

$
1,168,301

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

3,238,121

Other Expenses

2,962,678

Division of Convention Center & Stadium West Side Market
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

561,744

Other Expenses

692,043

Division of Convention Center & Stadium-Stadium
II.

Other Expenses

$ 21,754,162

Division of Property Management East Side Market
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

-

Other Expenses

40,000
––——————

TOTAL PARKS, RECREATION, & PROPERTIES

$
43,788,667
––——————
––——————

TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

$ 676,249,135
––——————
––——————

––——————

AGENCY FUND
Central Collection Agency
I.
II.

$

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

10,444,883

6,732,702

Other Expenses

3,712,181
––——————

TOTAL AGENCY FUND

$
10,444,883
––——————
––——————
DEBT SERVICE FUND

Sinking Fund Commission
I.
II.
III.

$

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$

64,508,911

178,812
467,400

Debt Service

63,862,699
––——————

TOTAL DEBT SERVICE FUNDS

$
64,508,911
––——————
––——————

Section 2. That the appropriations herein made are based upon the detail of expenditures set forth in the
Mayor’s Estimate, but are appropriated to the several departments, offices, and purposes in the aggregate for
I. - Personnel and Related Expenses; and II. - Other Expenses and are not severally and individually appropriated in said detail. Any unencumbered balance in an appropriation fund at the close of the year 2008 is hereby appropriated to such fund for the payment of unpaid obligations lawfully incurred in 2009 or prior years.
The Mayor’s Estimate, placed in the above-mentioned file, as modified by the schedule published pursuant to
Section 39 of the Charter shall within the sums appropriated in Section 1 hereof, constitute the expenditure
budget for the year 2009 and shall be subject to the control of the Mayor, provided, however, that no transfer
from I. - Personnel and Related Expenses, or II. - Other Expenses within any department or office, or from one
department or office to another shall be made except as provided in Section 41 of the Charter.
Section 3. That the Commissioner of Accounts is hereby authorized to draw warrants upon the City Treasury
for the amount appropriated in this ordinance, whenever claims are presented properly approved by the head of
the department or by the chief of a commission for which indebtedness was incurred.
Section 4. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force upon its
passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force at the earliest period allowed
by law.

296

The City Record

March 4, 2009

61

Schedule of Changes
(Published pursuant to Section 39 of the Charter)
The following changes are made to provide for reductions/increases in various departments of City Government;
to correct the total of the 2009 Appropriation Ordinance No. 142-09.
Changes to Ordinance No. 142-09
Amendments
Difference
GENERAL FUND
Legislative Branch

$

Judicial Branch

24,493

Executive Branch
Department of Public Safety

$

50,000

Department of Public Health

(50,000)

Support Functions

(24,493)

Total Executive Branch

$

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$

(24,493)
-

Enterprise Funds

400,000

Trust and Agency Funds

399,564
_____________
$
799,564
_____________
_____________

TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR 2009

GENERAL FUND
JUDICIAL BRANCH
Municipal Court - Clerk’s Division

$

I Personnel and Related Expenses

$

II Other Expenses

24,493

(12,198)
36,691
_____________

TOTAL JUDICIAL BRANCH

$
24,493
_____________
_____________

EXECUTIVE BRANCH
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Division of Dog Pound

$

II Other Expenses

50,000

50,000
_____________

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

$
50,000
_____________
_____________

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Division of Environment

$

II Other Expenses

$

(50,000)

(50,000)
_____________

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

$
(50,000)
_____________
_____________

Department Law

$

II Other Expenses

$

130,000

130,000
_____________

TOTAL FINANCE AND LEGAL ADMINISTRATION

297

$
130,000
_____________
_____________

The City Record

62

March 4, 2009

NONDEPARTMENTAL
Other Administrative
II Other Expenses

$

(154,493)

$ (154,493)

TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL

_____________
$
(154,493)
_____________
_____________

TOTAL SUPPORT FUNCTIONS

_____________
$
(24,493)
_____________
_____________

TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH

_____________
$
(24,493)
_____________
_____________

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$

-

$

400,000

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION AND
PROPERTIES
Division of Convention Center and Stadium-Stadium
II Other Expenses

$

400,000

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION
AND PROPERTIES
_____________
$
400,000
_____________
_____________
_____________
$
400,000
_____________
_____________

TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

AGENCY FUND
Central Collection Agency
I Personnel and Related Expenses

$
$

399,564

399,564
_____________
$
399,564
_____________
_____________

TOTAL AGENCY FUND

Ordinance No. 142-09 is herein published following the Public Hearing and before the third
reading and final passage and reflects the necessary amendments required by this schedule.

MOTION
By Council Member Brancatelli,
seconded by Council Member Pruitt
and unanimously carried that the
absence of Council Members Joe
Cimperman, Sabra Pierce Scott and
Joe Santiago be and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:05 p.m. to meet on Monday, March
9, 2009 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chambers.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measure will be on
its final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

February 25, 2009
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, February 25,
2009, at 10:30 a.m. with Director Triozzi presiding.
Present: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Director Withers, Director R. Smith,
Acting Director Scott, Directors Flask,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director
Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Carroll, Cox and Nichols.
Others: Jim Hardy, Commissioner,
Purchases and Supplies.

298

Debra Linn Talley, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 63-09.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that all bids
received on January 23, 2009 for the
purchase of an estimated quantity
of uniform clothing, for the Cleveland Municipal Court Bailiff Department, all items, under the authority
of Section 181.101 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
are rejected.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Director Withers, Director R. Smith,
Acting Director Scott, Directors Flask,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Carroll, Cox and Nichols.
Resolution No. 64-09.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that

The City Record

March 4, 2009
the bid of Granger Trucking, Inc.
for an estimated quantity of disposal of catch basin debris (all
items), for the Division of Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of one
year starting upon the later of execution of the contract or the day following expiration of the currently
effective contract for the goods or
services, received on November 21,
2008, under the authority of Section
129.29 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland Ohio, 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $299,625.00 (0%), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
commodities, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of the contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 170875
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $50,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for the commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
SUBCONTRACTOR

CSB/MBE/FBE
WORK

Lito Trucking

CSB/FBE
$16,875.00
( 5.632%)

Interstate Safety

CSB/FBE
$ 5,625.00
(01.877%)

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Director Withers, Director R. Smith,
Acting Director Scott, Directors Flask,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Carroll, Cox and Nichols.
Resolution No. 65-09.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that the
bid of DUECO Inc. for an estimated
quantity of Labor and Materials Necessary to Inspect, Test and Repair
Bucket and Derrick Trucks, all items,
for the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two years starting upon the execution of a contract,
received on December 19, 2008, under
the authority of Section 181.101 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$395,919.00 (0%, 0 Days), is affirmed
and approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of the contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 169171
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of $79,183.80.
The requirement contract shall further provide that the Contractor will
furnish the remainder of the City’s
requirements for the goods and/or

services, whether more or less than
the estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the
contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Director Withers, Director R. Smith,
Acting Director Scott, Directors Flask,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Carroll, Cox and Nichols.
Resolution No. 66-09.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Universal Oil Inc. for an
estimated quantity of lubricants and
supporting services, items 1-A thru
1-R, for the various Divisions of the
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of one year starting upon the
later of execution of the contract or
the day following expiration of the
currently effective contract for the
goods and services, received on
December 18, 2008 under the authority of Section 181.101 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $32,767.23
(Net 30), is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is requested to enter into a requirement
contract for the commodities, which
shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of the
contract of the following:
Requisition No. 189766
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of $1,700.01.
The requirement contract shall further provide that the Contractor will
furnish the remainder of the requirement for the labor and materials,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against-the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Director Withers, Director R. Smith,
Acting Director Scott, Directors Flask,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Carroll, Cox and Nichols.
Resolution No. 67-09.
By Director Smith.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2103-04, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
December 13, 2004, and Board of Control Resolution No. 642-05, adopted
November 16, 2005, the City, through
its Director of Port Control, entered
into City Contract No. 65326 with Hull
& Associates, Inc. (“Consultant”), to
provide professional services for design of an Environmental Management System (“System”) for the various divisions of the Department of
Port Control; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1616-08,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on November 17, 2008,
authorizes the purchase of software
licenses and to perform computer
implementation and maintenance and
website hosting services necessary
for the System; and
Whereas, the City has determined
it requires additional software licenses and maintenance necessary to
maintain the System; and

299

63
Whereas, the Consultant has proposed by its letter dated February 27,
2008 to provide the necessary software licenses and maintenance for
an amount of $12,000.00; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that the
Director of Port Control is authorized
to enter into a first modification to
City Contract No. 65326 between the
City of Cleveland and Hull & Associates, Inc. for additional software
licenses and maintenance as set forth
in Consultant’s letter dated February
27, 2008. The amount to be paid for
all services shall be increased by
$12,000.00 from $295,373.00 to a total
amount not to exceed $307,373.00.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultant for the services to be performed by Hull & Associates, Inc.
under the first modification authorized above is approved.
Subconsultant
C & S Engineers of
Ohio, Inc.

Percentage
Amount
100% Non-DBE
$12,000.00

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Director Withers, Director R. Smith,
Acting Director Scott, Directors Flask,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Carroll, Cox and Nichols.
Resolution No. 68-09.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that the
bid of APO Holdings Inc. dba APO
Pumps and Compressors, Inc. for an
estimated quantity of various Ingersoll-Rand air compressor equipment
parts and labor, all items, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service,
for the period of three years beginning with the date of execution of a
contract, received on November 14,
2008, under the authority of Section
131.18 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $80,000.00 (0% 30
Days), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of
the contract the following:
Requisition No. 186151
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $5,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Director Withers, Director R. Smith,
Acting Director Scott, Directors Flask,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Carroll, Cox and Nichols.

The City Record

64
Resolution No. 69-09.
By Directors Wasik, Flask and Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of R.W. Clark Company, Inc.,
for the public improvement of the
emergency generators replacement,
base bid, all items, for the Department of Public Service, Department
of Public Safety, and Department of
Parks, Recreation, and Properties,
received on December 4, 2008, under
to the authority of Ordinance No.
692-06, passed June 13, 2006, Ordinance No. 888-06, passed August 9,
2006,
and
Ordinance
No.
922-07,
passed July 11, 2007, and, for a gross
price for the improvement in the
aggregate amount of $138,643, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director
of Public Service, Director of Public
Safety, and the Director of Parks,
Recreation,
and
Properties
are
authorized to enter into contract for
the improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractor by R.W.
Clark Company, Inc. is approved:
Subcontractor
CSB/MBE/FBE
Work Best Electric
(CSB/FBE)

Amount
Percentage
$27,850.00
19.89%

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Director Withers, Director R. Smith,
Acting Director Scott, Directors Flask,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Carroll, Cox and Nichols.
Resolution No. 70-09.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Aerocomputers, Inc., for an estimated quantity of Aerial Moving
Map Systems, Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, for the
period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on October 8, 2008,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1008-08, passed by Cleveland City
Council on July 2, 2008, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $126,167.50, is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Public Safety is hereby requested to enter into a requirement
contract for the goods and/or services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of the contract of the following:
Requisition No. 188088
as specified,
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $126,167.50.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Director Withers, Director R. Smith,
Acting Director Scott, Directors Flask,

Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Carroll, Cox and Nichols.
Resolution No. 71-09.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, Resolution No. 307-06, as
amended by Resolutions Nos. 1264-03
and 505-08, adopted by this Board on
July 19, 2006 and October 15, 2008,
under the authority of Ordinances
Nos. 1264-03 and 2151-03, respectively passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland July 16, 2003 and
December 15, 2003, authorized the
Director of Parks, Recreation, and
Properties to enter into an agreement with City Architecture, Inc.,
for professional design services necessary for a schematic design for
the new Collinwood Recreation Center and a 1st Modification; and
Whereas, Resolution No. 505-08
inadvertently omitted certain proposed subcontractors; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the second paragraph of Board
of Control Resolution No. 505-08,
adopted October 15, 2008, is amended by adding: “Riverstone $17,000.00
(6.83%)”, and “Interpool Consulting,
LLC $28,500 (11.45%)”.
Be it further resolved, that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
505-08 not expressly amended above
shall remain unchanged and in full
force and effect.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Director Withers, Director R. Smith,
Acting Director Scott, Directors Flask,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Carroll, Cox and Nichols.

March 4, 2009
Director Feliciano and Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Carroll, Cox and Nichols.
Resolution No. 73-09.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program according to the
provisions of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 015-08-144, located
on Marvin Avenue under the Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1141-08 passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland on November
10, 2008 this Board of Control adopted Resolution No. 568-08 on November 26, 2008, authorizing the sale of
Permanent Parcel No. 015-08-144; and
Whereas, said Resolution No. 56808 incorrectly identified the Ordinance No. as 1441-08, now, therefore
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 568-08, adopted by
this Board of Control on November
26, 2008 is hereby amended by correcting the Ordinance No. “1141-08.”
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 568-08 not expressly amended
hereby shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Director Withers, Director R. Smith,
Acting Director Scott, Directors Flask,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Carroll, Cox and Nichols.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
Resolution No. 72-09.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, Board of Control Resolution No. 437-08, adopted September
3, 2008, authorized the Director of
Parks, Recreation & Properties to
enter into contract with Aaron Landscaping for an estimated quantity of
Urban Forestry Tree Planting Services, for the Division of Park Maintenance & Properties, Department of
Parks, Recreation & Properties; and
Whereas, Resolution No. 437-08 incorrectly identified the requisition
number for the initial purchase
under the contract approved; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 437-08 adopted by this
Board September 3, 2008, approving
the bid of Aaron Landscaping as
lowest and best for an estimated
quantity of Urban Forestry Tree
Planting Services is amended by
substituting “Requisition No. 178825”
for “Requisition No. 178855”, where
appearing.
Be it further resolved that all
other terms of Resolution No. 437-08
not expressly amended above shall
remain unchanged and in full force
and effect.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Director Withers, Director R. Smith,
Acting Director Scott, Directors Flask,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Interim

300

____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

The City Record

March 4, 2009
SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, MARCH 16, 2009
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 08-215: 13600 Deise Avenue (Ward 10)
Northern Ohio Scrap Services Corporation, tenant, by and through their
legal counsel, appeal under Section
76-6 of the Charter of the City of
Cleveland and Section 329.01(e) of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances
from the decision of the Chief Building Official of the Building and
Housing Department as stated in
Adjudication Order #B06052138 dated
October 30, 2008 regarding a proposed scrap metal processing facility and open yard storage of scrap
metal with an industrialized unit
office building at 13600 Deise Avenue.
Calendar No. 09-17: 13835 Enterprise
Avenue (Ward 20)
Nick Gantner, owner, appeals for
a use of an existing nonconforming
bingo hall contrary to conditions
imposed with a variance granted in
Calendar No. 05-224; and subject to the
limitations of Sections 347.12(a)(1)
and (2) being contrary to the distance requirements of at least 500
feet from a residence district and at
least 500 feet from another such use;
and 78 additional parking spaces
are needed, according to Section
349.04(e of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 09-18: 17730 Tarkington
Avenue (Ward 1)
Kimberly Wiley, owner, appeals to
install/maintain approximately 92
lineal feet of 6 foot high chain link
fence within the side street yard of
a corner parcel located in an OneFamily District; a 6 foot fence height
exceeds the Code limit of a 4 foot
height for fences in actual side
street yards, and in residential districts only ornamental fence shall be
installed if located within 4 feet of
the side street property line. The
Board of Zoning Appeals may permit a chain link fence, if the Board
determines that chain link fence is
common in the immediate vicinity of
the subject property as stated in
Section 358.04(a)(c)(1).
Calendar No. 09-23: 7201 St. Clair
Avenue (Ward 8)
Don Carter, owner, appeals to
establish use of an existing gas station as a vehicle repair garage,
located on a corner, flag shaped parcel in a Local Retail Business District, where a repair garage is not
permitted but first permitted in a
Semi-Industry District if located not
less than 100 feet from a residence
district, and the proposed is within
100 feet of a Multi-Family District;
and subject to Section 349.07(b), offstreet parking spaces shall be provided with wheel or bumper guards,
so located that no part of a parked
vehicle extends beyond the parking

65

space; and under Sections 352.08
through 352.11, landscaping strips
are required in widths of 6 feet
along the frontage of St. Clair
Avenue and East 72nd Street and 4
feet where the lot abuts a MultiFamily District; and the substitution
for a nonconforming gas station previously established within a General Retail Business District, requires
the Board of Zoning Appeals approval, according to the provisions
of Section 359.01(a) of the Codified
Ordinances.

Calendar No. 09-10: 5935 Ackley Road
Cleveland Metropolitan School District appealed to construct a twostory Kindergarten through Eighth
Grade school in a residence Industry District.
Calendar No. 08-228: 2674 East 63rd
Street
Peace Missionary Baptist Church
appealed to erect a freestanding
sign in a Multi-Family District.
The following appeals were Denied:

Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2009
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, March
2, 2009, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 09-16: 4724 West 130th
Street
Vietnamese Buddhist Association
of Cleveland appealed to change use
and build an addition to a one family dwelling in a General Retail
business District.

Calendar No. 09-3: 3102-04 Franklin
Boulevard
Michael DeCaesar and 3104 Hilliard Boulevard LLC appealed from
a ruling of the Cleveland Landmarks Commission.
Calendar No. 08-211: 3929 Lorain Avenue
Louis Bodnar Funeral Home appealed to construct an addition and
expand the use of an existing funeral home to include cremation services in a Local Retail Business District.
The following appeal heard by the
Board on December 1, 2008 was
adopted and approved on March 2,
2009.
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 08-229: 4114 Memphis
Avenue
Frank Lizanich, owner, and Rita
Jackson, tenant, appealed to change
use from one dwelling unit and a
store to one dwelling unit and a day
care in a Multi-Family District.

Calendar No. 08-199: 3121 West 33rd
Street
The 3043 Superior Building Corporation, owner, and the San Lorenzo
Club, purchaser, appealed to establish use of a two-story building for
a members only, private social club
in a B1 Two-Family District; subject
to conditions.

Calendar No. 09-8: 7026 Kinsman
Road
Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing
Authority appealed to construct 20
new townhouses in a Multi-Family
District.

The following appeal heard by the
Board on January 26, 2009 was
adopted and approved on March 2,
2009.

The following appeal was Withdrawn:
None
The following
missed:

appeal

was

Dis-

None
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 08-222: 4301-03 Clark
Avenue postponed to April 20,
2009.
Calendar No. 09-14: 12010 Bellaire
Road postponed to June 1, 2009.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on February 23, 2009,
were adopted and approved on
March 2, 2009.
The following appeals were Approved:

301

The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 08-195: 14312 Miles Avenue
Michael Sudman, owner, and Joe
Rocco, prospective tenant, appealed
to establish use of consolidated
parcels as auto wrecking and dismantling in a Semi-Industry District;
subject to conditions.
The following appeal heard by the
Board on February 17, 2009 was
adopted and approved on March 2,
2009.
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 08-236: 4120 Lee Road
Sherry
Wingfield,
owner,
and
Eddie Adya, prospective purchaser,
appealed to construct a restaurant
in a General Retail Business District; subject to conditions.
Secretary

The City Record

66
REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE
NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, March 18, 2009
1:00 p.m.
Notice is hereby given to all
interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning will hold a public hearing in
the Mercedes Cotner Committee
Room 217, City Hall, Cleveland,
Ohio, on Wednesday, March 18,
2009, at 1:00 p.m., to consider the
following ordinance now pending
in the Council:
Ord. No. 1671-08.
By Council Member Keane.
An ordinance to change the zoning of lands on the east and west
sides of Rocky River Drive between
Larchwood Avenue and Woodbury
Avenue as shown on the attached
map (Map Change No. 2269 Sheet No.
12).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Joseph C. Cimperman
Chairman
Committee on City Planning
_____
March 4, 2009 and March 11, 2009

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

chases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required
in
Advertisement
for
Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised, the following notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code,
each
prime
bidder,
each
minority
business
enterprise
(“MBE”) and each female business
enterprise (“FBE”) must be certified before doing business with the
City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing to receive credit for
using an MBE or FBE should
ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or FBE status
compliance with the Code, affirmative action in employment and, if
applicable, joint venture status, are
submitted to the Office of Equal
Opportunity (“OEO”) prior to the
date of bid opening or submission
of proposals or as specified by the
Director. Failure to comply with
the business enterprise code or
with representations made on these
forms may result in cancellation of
the contract or other civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2009
File No. 28-09 — Cushman Equipment
Parts, for the Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, as authorized
by Section No. 181.101 of the Codified
Ordinances
of
Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING,
FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 2009 AT 9:30
A.M., THE CITY HALL, DIVISION
OF RECREATION, ROOM 8, 601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 29-09 — Toro Mower Parts, for
the Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, as authorized by Section No.
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING,
FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 2009 AT 9:30
A.M., THE CITY HALL, DIVISION
OF RECREATION, ROOM 8, 601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

March 4, 2009
FICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT
OF A ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS
($100.00) IN THE FORM OF A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
AND/OR
MONEY ORDER. (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, MONDAY, MARCH 9, 2009 AT 10:00
A.M., THE PUBLIC UTILITIES
BUILDING, MAIN AUDITORIUM,
1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
February 25, 2009 and March 4, 2009
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2009
File No. 31-09 — Loew Park Aquatic
Spray Pad Improvements (Re-Bid),
for the Division of Research Planning and Development, Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
451-08, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, June 9,
2008.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT
OF A FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00)
IN THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER. (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2009 AT
11:00 A.M., THE BURKE LAKEFRONT AIRPORT, FIRST FLOOR
CONFERENCE ROOM, 1501 NORTH
MARGINAL ROAD, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
March 4, 2009 and March 11, 2009
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2009
File No. 30-09 — Tasers and All Related Equipment, for the Division of
Police, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Section No.
135.065 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2009 AT
10:00 A.M., THE JUSTICE CENTER,
8TH
FLOOR
BUDGET
UNIT, 1300 ONTARIO STREET,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
March 4, 2009 and March 11, 2009

For All Departments
February 25, 2009 and March 4, 2009
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Pur-

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2009
File No. 27-09 — Baldwin Residuals
and Fairmount Reservoir Projects, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 170408, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, December 8,
2008.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECI-

302

FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2009
File No. 32-09 — Purchase of 15kV
Walk in Switchgear for Lake
Road Sub Station (Re-Bid), for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power,
Department
of
Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 556-08, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 9, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2009 AT

March 4, 2009
10:00 A.M., THE TOM L. JOHNSON
BUILDING, 1300 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44115.
March 4, 2009 and March 11, 2009

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 197-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent of the City to reimburse certain costs in connection
with the improvement, acquisition,
construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation, renovation, furnishing, and
equipping of the Cleveland Convention Center from the proceeds of a
future issue of notes of bonds.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
(the “City”) proposes to improve, acquire, construct, reconstruct, rehabilitate, renovate, equip and furnish the
Cleveland Convention Center (the
“Project”); and
Whereas, the City currently expects that it will reimburse certain
of the costs of such Project from
the proceeds of notes or bonds
(“Bonds”), in a principal amount
not expected to exceed $2,000,000,
the terms of which will be set forth
in a future Ordinance of this Council and a Certificate of Award provided for in such Ordinance after
certain legal conditions are satisfied; and
Whereas, pending the authorization and issuance of the Bonds, the
City intends to incur and to pay certain of the costs of the Project in
expectation of the future reimbursement of such costs with proceeds of
the Bonds; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Declaration of Official
Intent. This resolution is a Declaration of Official Intent under U.S.
Treasury Regulations for purposes
of Sections 103 and 141 to 150 of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended. The City reasonably
expects that certain of the costs of
the Project will be reimbursed with
the proceeds of the Bonds. The
maximum principal amount of the
Bonds is expected not to exceed
$2,000,000, to be issued on terms set
forth in a future Ordinance of this
Council.
Section 2. Compliance with Open
Meeting Requirements. It is found
and determined that all formal
actions of this Council concerning
and relating to the adoption of this
Resolution were passed in an open
meeting of this Council, and that
all deliberations of this Council
and of any of its committees that
resulted in those formal actions,
were in meetings open to the public, in compliance with the law.

The City Record
Section 3. Severability. Each section of this Ordinance and each subdivision or paragraph of any section
thereof is declared to be independent and the finding or holding of
any section or any subdivision or
paragraph of any section thereof to
be invalid or void shall not be
deemed or held to affect the validity of any other section, subdivision
or paragraph of this Ordinance.
Section 4. Emergency. That this
resolution is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all the members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its adoption and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in
force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Adopted February 23, 2009.
Effective February 25, 2009.

Res. No. 210-09.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Brancatelli, Pierce Scott, Sweeney,
Cimperman, Cleveland, Keane, Brady,
Dow, Mitchell, Conwell, Wilkes and
Coats.
An emergency resolution urging
the Ohio Senate and House of Representatives to support Representative Foley’s initiative for an emergency six month moratorium on all
foreclosures in Ohio to allow for
new foreclosure rules to be sought
by lawmakers and put into effect.
Whereas, a significant number of
Ohioans have received invaluable
help because of the Compact to Help
Ohioans Preserve Homeownership,
yet the servicing industry still needs
to do more to turn around Ohio’s
housing crisis; and
Whereas, statistics prove that servicers “good faith” efforts are not
working in Ohio making legislation
necessary; and
Whereas, the legislation coincides
with numerous themes of the Governor’s Foreclosure Prevention Task
Force report and recommendations;
and
Whereas, the Mortgage Bankers
Association reports that approximately one of every eight homeowners in Ohio were behind on their
mortgage payments (at least 30
days due) or in foreclosure at the
end of September 2008; and
Whereas, recent information indicates that in Ohio, 3.93 percent of
the 1.5 million mortgage holders
were in foreclosure, while 8.31 percent were behind on their payments
and Ohio is one of nine states that
had rates of foreclosure starts above
the national average by the end of
the third quarter 2008; and
Whereas, RealtyTrac recently reported that Ohio’s foreclosure rate
during 2008 was ranked 7th highest
among the states; and
Whereas, Governor Strickland, President Obama, and municipal leaders
have called for comprehensive policy
initiatives to address the persistent
crisis in mortgage foreclosures; and
Whereas, the proposed legislation
by Representative Foley will address the foreclosure issues by pro-

303

67
viding for an emergency 6 month
moratorium on all home foreclosures
to allow the defense bar/courts/servicers to prepare for the new rules;
and
Whereas, the proposed legislation
will
clarify
the
Common
Pleas
Court’s right to modify mortgages
as an equitable remedy; and
Whereas, the legislation will provide for a $1,500 foreclosure filing
fee with no sunset on this provision;
and
Whereas, as foreclosures decline
in the state the amount of the fees
collected would decline allowing this
program to automatically adjust to
the need at any given time; and
Whereas, all lenders would be
required to provide a notice including specified information to the
homeowner 60 days prior to their
initial foreclosure filing on any residential foreclosure; and
Whereas, all servicers/lenders must
provide foreclosure information to a
statewide database prior to filing
any residential foreclosure; and
Whereas, the foreclosing lender/servicer must provide evidence to
the court at the time of initial foreclosure filing that this database submission has been completed; and
Whereas, the legislation will require that ownership of the note and
mortgage must be clear and unambiguous before action is filed, and
further, if the loan has been securitized, the specific mortgage backed
security that holds the loan must be
identified in addition to the MBS
trustee; and
Whereas, the legislation requires
the current appraisal of the home’s
value be filed with the complaint;
and
Whereas, the legislation will require an affidavit of plaintiff’s counsel that they directly represent and
are authorized to negotiate on behalf of the responsible investor representative, and no intermediary
representation is permitted; and
Whereas, this provision would not
postpone a foreclosure but would
postpone the post-foreclosure eviction, so a homeowner would have a
right to continue to occupy the home
at a court-determined market rent
until such time as the lender finds
a buyer for the home; and
Whereas, the legislation will limit
additional fees charged by servicers,
specifically targeting “junk fees”
such as fax fees, payoff demand
fees, and excessive property inspection fees; and
Whereas, all mortgage servicers
not otherwise pre-empted by federal
law must be licensed by the state,
and DFI-CF will have joint enforcement authority with the Attorney
General’s office; and
Whereas, this portion of the legislation will established minimum
eligibility
criteria
for
licensure
along with duties and prohibitions
similar to what was established
with S.B. 185; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,

68
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Urging the Ohio Senate
and House of Representatives to
support Representative Foley’s initiative for an emergency six month
moratorium on all foreclosures in
Ohio to allow for new foreclosure
rules to be sought by lawmakers
and put into effect.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to Governor
Ted Strickland, Ohio Senate President, Ohio Senate Minority Leader,
Speaker of the House, House Minority Leader, State Representative
Mike Foley, James Rokakis, Cuyahoga County Treasurer, and Mayor
Frank Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 23, 2009.
Effective February 25, 2009.

Res. No. 212-09.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Sweeney, Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Dow,
Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Mitchell,
Pierce Scott, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Santiago, Westbrook, Wilkes and
Zone.
An emergency resolution urging
United States Attorney General Eric
Holder to repeal the Tiahrt Amendment restrictions on gun data from
the FY 2010 Department of Justice
Budget.
Whereas, President Obama promised
to repeal the Tiahrt Amendment
restrictions on gun data by removing these dangerous provisions from
the FY 2010 Department of Justice
budget; and
Whereas, for several years, Congress has been undermining police
work by passing the Tiahrt Amendments, which are annual appropriations riders that restrict the Bureau
of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives (ATF) from releasing
crucial crime-fighting information to
cities and states; and
Whereas, when police recover a
gun used in crime, ATF uses the
gun’s serial number to trace it back
to its original point of sale and
keeps track of crime gun trace
requests from police departments
throughout the country; and
Whereas, the Tiahrt restrictions
prevent state and local police from
accessing and using gun trace data
in various ways, which would help
them to identify gun dealers and
individuals who may be involved in
illegal gun trafficking operations in
communities; and
Whereas, this Council also urges
support for a solution to this problem by replacing the Tiahrt Amend-

The City Record
ments with the language in S.2769,
the Firearms Information Use Act of
2008, introduced by Senator Robert
Menendez, co-sponsored by President
Obama when he was a Senator; and
Whereas, this Council also urges
support for the removal of other
damaging restrictions within the
Tiahrt Amendments, such as the
requirement that the FBI destroy
certain
NICS
background
check
records after just 24 hours, which
can hamper critical investigations;
and
Whereas, another restriction that
must be removed is that ATF remains blocked from requiring gun
dealers to check their inventories to
detect lost and stolen guns, which
only serves to create a law enforcement blind spot that helps criminals
get guns; and
Whereas, the Tiahrt Amendments
restrict police ability to access and
use ATF’s crime gun trace data to
analyze trafficking patterns and
solve gun crimes, prevent the use of
trace data in civil proceedings, restrict the ATF from publishing information about federally licensed
gun dealers who traffic guns to
criminals, limit state and local law
enforcement to data pertaining to a
specific crime gun or criminal investigation, prevent law enforcement
from using trace data in gun dealer license reviews, require FBI to
destroy criminal background check
records of gun buyers within 24
hours, prevent ATF from requiring
dealers to conduct inventory checks
to detect lost and stolen guns, and
prevent the ATF from updating and
modernizing files on gun dealers;
and
Whereas, this Council joins Mayors Against Illegal Guns, Citizens
for Safety, law enforcement associations, and community groups around
the country to urge repealing Tiahrt
Amendment restrictions from the FY
2010 Department of Justice budget;
and
Whereas, with gun crime on the
rise, Cleveland Police and the local,
state and federal law enforcement
agencies with whom they work
need access to all the data available to trace crime guns back to
those who make firearms available
to criminals and juveniles illegally; and
Whereas, it is critical that law
enforcement once again gain access
to this information, which can serve
as a key tool in their efforts to protect the public safety; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
United States Attorney General Eric
Holder to repeal the Tiahrt Amendment restrictions on gun data from
the FY 2010 Department of Justice
Budget.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution to

304

March 4, 2009
United States Attorney General Eric
Holder, Citizens for Safety – Ohio,
Mayors Against Illegal Guns, and
Mayor Frank Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 23, 2009.
Effective February 25, 2009.

Res. No. 213-09.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of Liquor License
of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to
6710 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for a transfer of
Liquor License of a C2 and C2X
Liquor
Permit
from
Keith
D.
Sumpter, 10404 Wade Park Avenue,
1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, Permanent
Number
86937380005
to
Dawn’s Market & Deli, LLC, 6710 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
Permanent Number 1981720; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,

March 4, 2009
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a transfer
of Liquor License of a C2 and C2X
Liquor
Permit
from
Keith
D.
Sumpter, 10404 Wade Park Avenue,
1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, Permanent
Number
86937380005
to
Dawn’s Market & Deli, LLC, 6710 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
Permanent Number 1981720, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 23, 2009.
Effective February 25, 2009.

Res. No. 214-09.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
4890 Superior Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at MiJo Z Peldich,
DBA Mike’s Mini Mart, 4890 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
Permanent Number 6793251; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and

The City Record
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at MiJo Z Peldich,
DBA Mike’s Mini Mart, 4890 Superior
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 6793251 and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 23, 2009.
Effective February 25, 2009.

Res. No. 215-09.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit at
7535 Kinsman Avenue, and repealing Resolution No. 1055-08, objecting
to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit to
7535 Kinsman Avenue by Resolution
No. 1055-08 adopted by the Council
on July 2, 2008; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2,
C2X and D6 Liquor Permit to Kimetra L. Leslie, DBA Big Fahie’s Deli,
7535 Kinsman Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44104,
Permanent
Number
5144147 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 1055-

305

69
08, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 23, 2009.
Effective February 25, 2009.

Res. No. 216-09.
By Council Member Wilkes.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
3881 East 123rd Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Robert J.
Barnes, III, DBA Rob III Mini Mart,
3881 East 123rd Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44105,
Permanent
Number
0457878; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1

70
Liquor Permit at Robert J. Barnes,
III, DBA Rob III Mini Mart, 3881
East 123rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permanent Number 0457878
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 23, 2009.
Effective February 25, 2009.

Ord. No. 156-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of building
materials and used paving bricks,
for the various divisions of City government.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
period of one or two years of the
necessary items of building materials and used paving bricks, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the various divisions of
City government, Department of
Finance. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Finance is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with a term of two years
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Finance by com-

The City Record
paring the bids received for both
terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 121223)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 23, 2009.
Effective February 25, 2009.

Ord. No. 172-09.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance changing
the name of Medical Mutual Plaza
at Huron Point located at the intersections of Huron Road, East 9th
Street and Prospect Avenue to “Kent
W. Clapp Memorial Plaza.”
Whereas, as head of Medical
Mutual of Ohio, Kent Clapp won the
respect and admiration of his staff,
peers and colleagues in the Cleveland community; and
Whereas, ParkWorks received support from Medical Mutual for the
transformation of a city right of
way into a greenspace, used by
downtown workers, residents and
Mr. Clapp’s own valued employees,
and fittingly named this park the
Medical Mutual Plaza at Huron
Point; and
Whereas, since the loss of Kent
Clapp in early December 2008, there
has been community support for
renaming
Medical
Mutual
Plaza
after Mr. Clapp, a beloved civic
leader; and
Whereas, ParkWorks requests that
Medical Mutual Plaza at Huron
Point be renamed for Kent Clapp so
that, appropriately, a city greenspace facing the business he adored
in the city he served will always
remind us that Kent Clapp made a
difference; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,

306

March 4, 2009
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the name of Medical Mutual Plaza at Huron Point
located at the intersections of Huron
Road, East 9th Street and Prospect
Avenue shall be changed to “Kent
W. Clapp Memorial Plaza.”
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 23, 2009.
Effective February 25, 2009.

Ord. No. 196-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 168-09,
passed February 9, 2009, relating to
authorizing the Director of Finance
to employ one or more professional
consultants to analyze the performance of City departments and divisions and to recommend strategic
and operational improvements leading to cost savings, operational efficiencies, and streamlining of service
delivery.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 168-09, passed February 9,
2009, is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 01-999800632000, 52 SF 001, and 60 SF 001,
Request No. 164844.
Section 2. That existing Section 2
of Ordinance No. 168-09, passed February 9, 2009, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 23, 2009.
Effective February 25, 2009.

Ord. No. 208-09.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance to add
the name Leonard B. Jackson Street
as a secondary name to East 117th
Street between Durant and Whitmore, and repealing Ordinance No.
1585-06, passed December 11, 2006.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

March 4, 2009
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, 1976, the name Leonard B.
Jackson Street shall be added to
East 117th Street between Durant
and
Whitmore
as
a
secondary
name.
Section 2. That Ordinance No. 158506, passed December 11, 2006, is
hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 23, 2009.
Effective February 25, 2009.

Ord. No. 209-09.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance to add
the name Ted Ginn Sr. Avenue as a
secondary name to Gray Avenue,
and repealing Ordinance No. 1065-06
passed November 13, 2006.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976, the name Ted Ginn Sr. Avenue
shall be added to Gray Avenue as a
secondary name.
Section 2. That Ordinance No. 106506, passed November 13, 2006 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 23, 2009.
Effective February 25, 2009.

Ord. No. 211-09.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement or agreements
with various service providers for
temporary administrative services
related to official business of the
Office of the Clerk of Council and
Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

The City Record
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into an
agreement or agreements with various service providers for temporary
administrative services related to
the official business of the Office of
the Clerk of Council and Cleveland
City Council. The agreements shall
be for a period not to exceed six (6)
months, with an option by the Clerk
of Council to extend the term for an
additional six (6) month period. The
service providers shall be paid on an
hourly basis in an amount not to
exceed 10.00 per hour. The agreements shall be certified from fund
numbers 632000-01-010100 and may be
recertified as necessary upon exercise of the extension option by the
Clerk.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 23, 2009.
Effective February 25, 2009.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Wednesday, February 18, 2009
9:00 a.m.
GENERAL FUND BUDGET HEARINGS — Finance Committee: Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair; Brancatelli, Brady, Conwell,
Keane,
Pierce
Scott,
Cleveland,
Westbrook, Coats, Kelley. Pro tempore: Zone, Pruitt, Mitchell.
Thursday, February 19, 2009
9:00 a.m.
GENERAL FUND BUDGET HEARINGS — Finance Committee: Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair; Brancatelli, Brady, Conwell,
Keane,
Pierce
Scott,
Westbrook,
Coats, Kelley. Authorized Absence:
Cleveland. Pro tempore: Zone, Pruitt,
Reed, Polensek.
Friday, February 20, 2009
9:00 a.m.
GENERAL FUND BUDGET HEARINGS — Finance Committee: Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair; Brancatelli, Brady, Conwell,
Keane,
Pierce
Scott,
Cleveland,
Westbrook, Coats, Kelley. Pro tempore: Zone, Pruitt, Mitchell, Wilkes,
Cummins.

307

71
Monday, February 23, 2009
9:00 a.m.
GENERAL FUND BUDGET HEARINGS — Finance Committee: Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair; Brancatelli, Brady, Conwell,
Keane,
Pierce
Scott,
Cleveland,
Westbrook, Coats, Kelley. Pro tempore: Pruitt.
Tuesday, February 24, 2009
9:00 a.m.
GENERAL FUND BUDGET HEARINGS — Finance Committee: Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Brancatelli, Brady,
Conwell, Keane, Pierce Scott, Cleveland,
Westbrook,
Coats,
Kelley.
Authorized Absence: Cimperman,
Vice Chair. Pro tempore: Pruitt, Reed.
Wednesday, February 25, 2009
9:00 a.m.
GENERAL FUND BUDGET HEARINGS — Finance Committee: Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair; Brancatelli, Brady, Conwell,
Keane,
Pierce
Scott,
Westbrook,
Coats, Kelley. Authorized Absence:
Cleveland.
Thursday, February 26, 2009
9:00 a.m.
GENERAL FUND BUDGET HEARINGS — Finance Committee: Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair; Brancatelli, Brady, Conwell,
Keane,
Pierce
Scott,
Westbrook,
Cleveland, Coats, Kelley. Pro tempore: Dow.
Monday, March 2, 2009
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Sweeney, Chair; Brady, Conwell, Keane,
Cleveland, Brancatelli, Westbrook,
Coats, Kelley. Authorized Absence:
Cimperman, Vice Chair; Pierce Scott.
Tuesday, March 3, 2009
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Pierce
Scott, Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair;
Cummins, Coats, Westbrook, Brady,
Zone,
Dow.
Authorized Absence:
Cimperman.
Wednesday, March 4, 2009
10:00 a.m.
Aviation and Transportation Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Keane,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Westbrook,
Mitchell, Dow, Cleveland. Pro tempore: Cimperman.
1:00 p.m.
City Planning (Zoning) Committee:
Present:
Cimperman,
Chair;
Dow, Keane, Zone, Reed. Authorized
Absence: Westbrook, Vice Chair;
Conwell. Pro tempore: Brady.
1:30 p.m.
City Planning Committee: Present:
Cimperman, Chair; Westbrook, Vice
Chair; Dow, Keane, Zone, Reed, Conwell. Pro tempore: Brady.

The City Record

72

March 4, 2009

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
African American Music Association Inc. — Basketball Education and Recreation Program —
(Ward 20, 1, 2 NEF) (O 247-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285
Clerk of Council — various service providers for temporary administrative services (O 211-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 307

Appropriations
Appropriations — Year 2009 (O 142-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287-288

Board of Control — Architecture Division
Collinwood Recreation Center arcitectural work — amend BOC Res. 505-08 —
Contract #65964 — Depts. of Public Service and Parks, Recreation and
Properties (BOC Res. 71-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300

Board of Control — Cleveland Municipal Court
Uniform clothing, Bailiff — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — all bids rejected —
Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 63-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 298

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Bucket and derrick trucks, labor and materials to test and repair —
contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to DUECO, Inc. — Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 65-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Marvin Avenue (Ward 14) — PPN 015-08-144 — Manuel Roman and
Margarita Roman per Ord. 1141-08 — amend BOC Res. 568-08
(BOC Res. 73-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300

Board of Control — Finance Department
Uniform clothing, Bailiff — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — all bids rejected —
behalf of Cleveland Municipal Court (BOC Res. 63-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 298

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Marvin Avenue (Ward 14) — PPN 015-08-144 — Manuel Roman and
Margarita Roman per Ord. 1141-08 — amend BOC Res. 568-08
(BOC Res. 73-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Ingersoll Rand air compressor parts and labor — contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to APO
Holdings, Inc., d.b.a., APO Pumps and Compressors, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 68-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299

Board of Control — Park Maintenance and Properties Division
Urban Forestry Tree Planting Services — amend BOC Res. 437-08 — Dept. of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 72-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300

Board of Control — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Collinwood Recreation Center arcitectural work — amend BOC Res.
Contract #65964 — Division of Architecture (BOC Res. 71-09) . .
Generators, emergency — contract per Ord. 692-06, 888-06, 922-07 to
R.W. Clark Company, Inc. (BOC Res. 69-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Forestry Tree Planting Services — amend BOC Res. 437-08 —
Division of Park Maintenance and Properties (BOC Res. 72-09) .

308

505-08 —
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300

March 4, 2009

The City Record

73

Board of Control — Police Division
Aerial moving map systems — contract per Ord. 1008-08 to Aerocomputers, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 70-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Environmental Management System design — modify Contract #65326 per
BOC Res. 642-05 (BOC Res. 67-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Collinwood Recreation Center arcitectural work — amend BOC Res. 505-08 —
Contract #65964 — Division of Architecture, Depts. of Public Service and
Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 71-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
Environmental Management System design — modify Contract #65326 per
BOC Res. 642-05 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 67-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Generators, emergency — contract per Ord. 692-06, 888-06, 922-07 to
R.W. Clark Company, Inc. — Depts. of Public Service, Public
Safety and Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 69-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Aerial moving map systems — contract per Ord. 1008-08 to Aerocomputers, Inc. —
Division of Police (BOC Res. 70-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
Generators, emergency — contract per Ord. 692-06, 888-06, 922-07 to
R.W. Clark Company, Inc. (BOC Res. 69-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Collinwood Recreation Center arcitectural work — amend BOC Res.
Contract #65964 — Division of Architecture (BOC Res. 71-09) . .
Generators, emergency — contract per Ord. 692-06, 888-06, 922-07 to
R.W. Clark Company, Inc. (BOC Res. 69-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ingersoll Rand air compressor parts and labor — contract per
C.O. Sec. 131.18 to APO Holdings, Inc., d.b.a., APO Pumps and
Compressors, Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(BOC Res. 68-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

505-08 —
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Bucket and derrick trucks, labor and materials to test and repair —
contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to DUECO, Inc. — Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 65-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
Catch basin debris disposal — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.29 to
Granger Trucking, Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control
(BOC Res. 64-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 298
Lubricants and supporting services — contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101
to Universal Oil, Inc. (BOC Res. 66-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Aerial moving map systems — contract per Ord. 1008-08 to Aerocomputers, Inc. —
Division of Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 70-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bucket and derrick trucks, labor and materials to test and repair —
contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to DUECO, Inc. — Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 65-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Catch basin debris disposal — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.29 to Granger Trucking, Inc. —
Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 64-09) . . . . . . .
Ingersoll Rand air compressor parts and labor — contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to APO
Holdings, Inc., d.b.a., APO Pumps and Compressors, Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 68-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lubricants and supporting services — contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101
to Universal Oil, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 66-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Forestry Tree Planting Services — amend BOC Res. 437-08 —
Division of Park Maintenance and Properties, Dept. of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 72-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

309

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 298

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300

The City Record

74

March 4, 2009

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Catch basin debris disposal — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.29 to Granger Trucking, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 64-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 298

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Ackley Road, 5935, (Ward 12) — Cleveland Metropolitan School District, owner —
appeal granted and adopted on 3/2/09 (Cal. 09-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bellaire Road, 12010, (Ward 19) — Dolores Wagner, owner — appeal postponed to 6/1/09 on
3/2/09 (Cal. 09-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Avenue, 4301-03, (Ward 14) — Michael and Kamal Elseikali, owners — appeal postponed
to 4/20/09 on 3/2/09 (Cal. 08-222). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 63rd Street, 2674, (Ward 5) — Peace Missionary Baptist Church, owner — appeal
granted and adopted on 3/2/09 (Cal. 08-228) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, 3102-04, (Ward 13) — Michael DeCesare, statutory agent for 3104
Hilliard Boulevard LLC, owner — appeal granted and adopted on 3/2/09
(Cal. 09-3). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Road, 7026, (Ward 5) — Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority, owner —
appeal heard on 3/2/09 (Cal. 09-8). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lee Road, 4120, (Ward 1) — Sherry Wingfield, owner, and Eddie Adya, prospective
purchaser — appeal granted and adopted on 3/2/09 (Cal. 08-236) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 3929, (Ward 14) — Louis Bodnar Funeral Home, owner —
appeal granted and adopted on 3/2/09 (Cal. 08-211) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Memphis Avenue, 4114, (Ward 15) — Frank Lizanich, owner and Rita Jackson, tenant —
appeal heard on 3/2/09 (Cal. 08-229) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Avenue, 14312, (Ward 1) — Michael Sudman, owner, and Joe Rocco, perspective tenant —
appeal granted and adopted on 3/2/09 (Cal. 08-195) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th Street, 4724, (Ward 20) — Vietnamese Buddhist Association of Cleveland, owner —
appeal heard on 3/2/09 (Cal. 09-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 33rd Street, 3121, (Ward 14) — The 3043 Superior Building Corporation, owner and the
San Lorenzo Club and Manuel Acevedo, purchaser — appeal granted and adopted on
3/2/09 (Cal. 08-199). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Deise Avenue, 13600, (Ward 10) — Northern Ohio Scrap Services Corporation, tenant —
appeal to be heard on 3/16/09 (Cal. 08-215) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enterprise Avenue, 13835, (Ward 20) — Nick Gantner, owner — appeal to be heard on 3/16/09
(Cal. 09-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 7201, (Ward 8) — Don Carter, owner — appeal to be heard on 3/16/09
(Cal. 09-23) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tarkington Avenue, 17730, (Ward 1) — Kimberly Wiley, owner — appeal to be heard on
3/16/09 (Cal. 09-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301

Bonds
Bridges & Roadway Improvements bonds — $15,930,000 — issuance and sale of bonds (O 242-09).
Cemeteries Improvement Bonds — $2,995,000 — issuance and sale of bonds (O 241-09) . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Convention Center Improvement bonds — $ 1,040,000 — issuance and sale of bonds
(O 239-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement bonds — $13,685,000 — issuance and sale of
bonds (O 243-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Facilities Improvement bonds — $6,220,000 — issuance and sale of bonds
(O 240-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Residential and Neighborhood Development — $6,225,000 — issuance and sale of bonds
(O 244-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 263
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 249
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 277

Budget
Appropriations — Year 2009 (O 142-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287-288

Case Western Reserve University
Hudson Relays, 2009 — permit — April 25, 2009 — Case Western Reserve University
(Ward 6 & 8) (O 245-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Cemeteries
Cemeteries Improvement Bonds — $2,995,000 — issuance and sale of bonds (O 241-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256

310

The City Record

March 4, 2009

75

City Clerk
Clerk of Council — agreements — various service providers for temporary administrative
services (O 211-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 307

City Council
ADT Security Services, Inc. — amend City Contract No. 60859 — City Council’s
security system (O 246-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285
Agreements — various service providers for temporary administrative services (O 211-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 307

City of Cleveland Bids
Baldwin Residuals and Fairmount Reservoir Projects — Department of
Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 1704-08 — bid due April 1, 2009
(advertised 2/25/2009 and 3/4/2009). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cushman equipment parts — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties —
Division of Recreation — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due March 13, 2009
(advertised 2/25/2009 and 3/4/2009). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Loew Park Aquatic spray pad improvements (Re-Bid) — Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties — Division of Research, Planning and
Development — per Ord. 451-08 — bid due March 18, 2009
(advertised 3/4/2009 and 3/11/2009). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Switchgear, 15kV walk-in for Lake Road Sub-station (Re-Bid) — Department of
Public Utilities — Division of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 556-08 —
bid due March 27, 2009 (advertised 3/4/2009 and 3/11/2009) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tasers and related equipment — Department of Public Safety — Division of Police —
per C.O. Sec. 135.065 — bid due March 25, 2009 (advertised 3/4/2009 and 3/11/2009) .
Toro mower parts — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties —
Division of Recreation — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due March 13, 2009
(advertised 2/25/2009 and 3/4/2009). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302

City Planning Commission
E. 117th St. (between Durant and Whitmore) — secondary name — Leonard B. Jackson St. —
repeal Ord. 1585-06 (O 208-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gray Ave. — secondary name — Ted Ginn Sr. Avenue — repeal Ord. 1065-06 (O 209-09) . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Dr., (East & West sides) — between Larchwood Ave. & Woodbury Ave. —
change the zoning (Ward 21) (O 1671-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Simms St., Sanders Ct., Kramer Ct. — intention to vacate a portion — Service Department
(Ward 13) (R 88-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 307
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288

Clerk of Council
ADT Security Services, Inc. — amend City Contract No. 60859 — City Council’s
security system (O 246-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Commemoration
Coury, Joseph E. (R 271-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240

Communications
New Circle Vista, Maximum Accessible Housing of Ohio — notification of construction &
management of residential rental development on E. 115th (Ward 09) (F 251-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 239

Community Development
3754 E. 93rd St. — PPN 133-25-010 — Land Reutilization Program — Leonard Johnson —
(Ward 02) (O 238-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
4615 — 4801 Chester Ave. — PPN 104-31-016 — Land Reutilization Program Transaction Realty —
(Ward 07) (O 237-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240

Condolences
Cursis, Dorthy (R 262-09) . . . . .
Eucker, Willis (R 261-09) . . . . .
McClain, Mattie J. (R 257-09) . .
Stewart, Catherine (R 259-09). .
Tonti, Emma (R 258-09) . . . . . . .
Wilson, Charlie Mae (R 260-09)

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

311

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

240
240
240
240
240
240

The City Record

76

March 4, 2009

Congratulations
Miller, Stella R. (R 266-09). . . . . .
Montgomery, Eleanor (R 263-09)
Palecek, Addie (R 264-09) . . . . . .
Pugh, Erma (R 265-09) . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

240
240
240
240

Congress of United States
United States Congress — pass — Employee Free Choice Act (R 235-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Contracts
Able Contracting Group, Inc. dba Able Fence & Guard Rail — for fencing and gates, including
labor and materials for repair and installation (O 233-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ADT Security Services, Inc. — amend City Contract No. 60859 — City Council’s
security system (O 246-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect. 1 Ord. 732-07 — apply for & accepting grants, gifts from public &
private entities to facilitate sustainability projects (O 51-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Building materials & used paving bricks — various divisions of city government (O 156-09) . . .
Creative Concrete Construction Co. — public improvement of repairing and maintaining
runways, taxiways, ramps, roads, and other concrete surfaces (O 236-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — Aries Distribution for janitorial maintenance and cleaning supplies (O 234-09) .
Public Utilities (Division of Water) — professional service — Cisco hardware and software
products (maintenance & technical support) (O 84-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recycled or virgin asphalt concrete — purchase — Public Service (Street Division) & Public
Utilities (O 1769-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288

Convention Center
Cleveland Convention Center Improvement bonds — $ 1,040,000 — issuance and sale of bonds
(O 239-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
Cuy. Co. Board of Commissioners’ and MMPI’s site selection — Cleveland Medical Mart
& Convention Center (R 255-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287
Reimburse Convention Center costs from future bonds or notes — Finance Department (R 197-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 303

County Commissioners
Cuy. Co. Board of Commissioners’ and MMPI’s site selection — Cleveland Medical Mart
& Convention Center (R 255-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287

Finance Department
Amend Sect. 2 Ord. No. 168-09 — analyze the performance of City departments and divisions —
professional consultants (O 196-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
Appropriations — Year 2009 (O 142-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287-288
Bridges & Roadway improvements — $15,930,000 — issuance and sale of bonds (O 242-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 263
Building materials & used paving bricks — contracts — various divisions of city government
(O 156-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
Cemeteries Improvement Bonds — $2,995,000 — issuance and sale of bonds (O 241-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256
Cleveland Convention Center Improvement bonds — $ 1,040,000 — issuance and sale of bonds
(O 239-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement bonds — $13,685,000 — issuance and sale of
bonds (O 243-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270
Public Facilities Improvement bonds — $6,220,000 — issuance and sale of bonds (O 240-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 249
Reimburse Convention Center costs from future bonds or notes (R 197-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 303
Residential and Neighborhood Development — $6,225,000 — issuance and sale of bonds (O 244-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 277

Gifts
Amend Sect. 1 Ord. 732-07 — apply for & accepting grants, gifts from public &
private entities to facilitate sustainability projects (O 51-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288

Grants
Amend Sect. 1 Ord. 732-07 — apply for & accepting grants, gifts from public &
private entities to facilitate sustainability projects (O 51-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288

Land Reutilization Program
3754 E. 93rd St. — PPN 133-25-010 — Leonard Johnson (Ward 02) (O 238-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
4615 — 4801 Chester Ave. — PPN 104-31-016 — Transaction Realty (Ward 07) (O 237-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240

312

March 4, 2009

The City Record

77

Liquor Permits
Cedar Ave., 6608-12 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 05) (R 248-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 286
Cedar Ave., 6608-12 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 05) (F 252-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 239
Detroit Ave., 5800,5806, 5808, 5810 (1st fl. & bsmt. & Patio) — Transfer of
ownership application (Ward 17) (F 256-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 239
E. 123rd St., 3881 — objection to issuance (Ward 02) (R 216-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
Kinsman Ave., 7535 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1055-08 (Ward 05)
(R 215-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
Memphis Ave., 4919 — additional class application (Ward 16) (F 254-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 239
St. Clair Ave., 3980 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 13) (F 253-09)
St. Clair Ave., 6710 — objection to transfer of liquor license (Ward 13) (R 213-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304
Superior Ave., 4890 — objection to issuance (Ward 13) (R 214-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
Superior Ave., 6212 — objection to transfer of Liquor License (Ward 07) (R 249-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 286

Neighborhood Equity Funds
African American Music Association Inc. — agreement — Basketball Education and
Recreation Program — (Ward 20, 1, 2 NEF) (O 247-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Ohio House of Representatives
Ohio Senate and House of Representatives — Support Representative Foley’s initiative —
emergency six month moratorium on all foreclosures in Ohio (R 210-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 303

Parks
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement bonds — $13,685,000 — issuance and sale of
bonds (O 243-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
African American Music Association Inc. — agreement — Basketball Education and
Recreation Program — (Ward 20, 1, 2 NEF) (O 247-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Permits
Hudson Relays, 2009 — permit — April 25, 2009 — Case Western Reserve University
(Ward 6 & 8) (O 245-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Plats
Connector Street (Sowinski Ave. & Kosciuszko Ave.) — Dedication Plat (Ward 07)
(F 250-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 239

Port Control Department
Able Contracting Group, Inc. dba Able Fence & Guard Rail — contract —
for fencing and gates, including labor and materials for repair and
installation (O 233-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240
Creative Concrete Construction Co. — contract — public improvement of repairing and
maintaining runways, taxiways, ramps, roads, and other concrete surfaces
(O 236-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240
Contracts — Aries Distribution for janitorial maintenance and cleaning supplies
(O 234-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240

Professional Services
Amend Sect. 2 Ord. No. 168-09 — analyze the performance of City departments and divisions —
professional consultants — Finance Dept. (O 196-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
Clerk of Council — agreements — various service providers for temporary administrative
services (O 211-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 307
Public Utilities (Division of Water) — contract — Cisco hardware and software products
(maintenance & technical support) (O 84-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288

Public Hearings (Notices)
Rocky River Dr. (East & West sides) — between Larchwood Ave. & Woodbury Ave. —
change the zoning (Ward 21) (O 1671-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302

313

The City Record

78

March 4, 2009

Public Improvements
Creative Concrete Construction Co. — contract — repairing and maintaining runways,
taxiways, ramps, roads, and other concrete surfaces (O 236-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240

Recognition
Cozzens, Ph. D., Rev. Donald (R 267-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240
Donnelly, Judge John J. (R 269-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240
Kenneley Czelusniak, Mary Ellen (R 268-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240
Mullaly, Eileen Murphy (R 270-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240

Resolution of Support
Cuy. Co. Board of Commissioners’ and MMPI’s site selection — Cleveland Medical Mart
& Convention Center (R 255-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287
Ohio Senate and House of Representatives — Support Representative Foley’s initiative —
emergency six month moratorium on all foreclosures in Ohio (R 210-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 303
Repeal the Tiahrt Amendment restrictions on gun data (R 212-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304
United States Congress — pass — Employee Free Choice Act (R 235-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Repeal the Tiahrt Amendment restrictions on gun data (R 212-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304

Service Department
Connector Street (Sowinski Ave. & Kosciuszko Ave.) — Dedication Plat (Ward 07)
(F 250-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 239
E. 117th St. (between Durant and Whitmore) — secondary name — Leonard B. Jackson St. —
repeal Ord. 1585-06 (O 208-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
Gray Ave. — secondary name — Ted Ginn Sr. Avenue — repeal Ord. 1065-06
(O 209-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 307
Hudson Relays, 2009 — permit — April 25, 2009 — Case Western Reserve University
(Ward 6 & 8) (O 245-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285
Medical Mutual Plaza — changing the name — “Kent W. Clapp Memorial Plaza”
(intersections of Huron Rd., E. 9th St. and Prospect Ave.) (O 172-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
Recycled or virgin asphalt concrete — purchase (Street Division) & Public Utilities
(O 1769-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
Simms St., Sanders Ct., Kramer Ct. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning
Commission (Ward 13) (R 88-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288

Street Vacation
Simms St., Sanders Ct., Kramer Ct. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning
Commission — Service Department (Ward 13) (R 88-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288

Streets — Name
E. 117th St. (between Durant and Whitmore) — secondary name — Leonard B. Jackson St. —
repeal Ord. 1585-06 (O 208-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
Gray Ave. — secondary name — Ted Ginn Sr. Avenue — repeal Ord. 1065-06
(O 209-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 307
Medical Mutual Plaza — changing the name — “Kent W. Clapp Memorial Plaza”
(intersections of Huron Rd., E. 9th St. and Prospect Ave.) (O 172-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306

Streets Division
Recycled or virgin asphalt concrete — purchase — Public Service (Street Division) & Public
Utilities (O 1769-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288

Utilities Department
Amend Sect. 1 Ord. 732-07 — apply for & accepting grants, gifts from public &
private entities to facilitate sustainability projects (O 51-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
Public Utilities (Division of Water) — professional service — contract — Cisco hardware
and software products (maintenance & technical support) (O 84-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
Recycled or virgin asphalt concrete — purchase — Public Service (Street Division) & Public
Utilities (O 1769-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288

314

March 4, 2009

The City Record

79

Ward 01
African American Music Association Inc. — agreement — Basketball Education and
Recreation Program — (Ward 20, 1, 2 NEF) (O 247-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285
McClain, Mattie J. — condolence (R 257-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240

Ward 02
3754 E. 93rd St. — PPN 133-25-010 — Land Reutilization Program — Leonard Johnson
(O 238-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
African American Music Association Inc. — agreement — Basketball Education and
Recreation Program — (Ward 20, 1, 2 NEF) (O 247-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285
E. 123rd St., 3881 — objection to issuance — liquor permits (R 216-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305

Ward 03
Montgomery, Eleanor — congratulations (R 263-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240

Ward 05
Cedar Ave., 6608-12 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permits (R 248-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 286
Cedar Ave., 6608-12 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permits (F 252-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 239
Kinsman Ave., 7535 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1055-08 — liquor permits
(R 215-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
Stewart, Catherine — condolence (R 259-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240

Ward 06
Hudson Relays, 2009 — permit — April 25, 2009 — Case Western Reserve University
(Ward 6 & 8) (O 245-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Ward 07
4615 — 4801 Chester Ave. — PPN 104-31-016 — Land Reutilization Program —
Transaction Realty (O 237-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240
Connector Street (Sowinski Ave. & Kosciuszko Ave.) — Dedication Plat (F 250-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 239
Superior Ave., 6212 — objection to transfer of Liquor License — liquor permits
(R 249-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 286
Wilson, Charlie Mae — condolence (R 260-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240

Ward 08
Hudson Relays, 2009 — permit — April 25, 2009 — Case Western Reserve University
(Ward 6 & 8) (O 245-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Ward 09
E. 117th St. (between Durant and Whitmore) — secondary name — Leonard B. Jackson St. —
repeal Ord. 1585-06 (O 208-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
Gray Ave. — secondary name — Ted Ginn Sr. Avenue — repeal Ord. 1065-06
(O 209-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 307
New Circle Vista, Maximum Accessible Housing of Ohio — notification of construction &
management of residential rental development on E. 115th (F 251-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 239

Ward 13
Cozzens, Ph. D., Rev. Donald — recognition (R 267-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240
Donnelly, Judge John J. — recognition (R 269-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240
Kenneley Czelusniak, Mary Ellen — recognition (R 268-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240
Medical Mutual Plaza — changing the name — “Kent W. Clapp Memorial Plaza”
(intersections of Huron Rd., E. 9th St. and Prospect Ave.) (O 172-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
Mullaly, Eileen Murphy — recognition (R 270-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240
Simms St., Sanders Ct., Kramer Ct. — intention to vacate a portion —
City Planning Commission — Service Department (R 88-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
St. Clair Ave., 3980 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permits
(F 253-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 239
St. Clair Ave., 6710 — objection to transfer of liquor license — liquor permits
(R 213-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304
Superior Ave., 4890 — objection to issuance — liquor permits (R 214-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305

315

The City Record

80

March 4, 2009

Ward 16
Memphis Ave., 4919 — additional class application — liquor permits (F 254-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 239

Ward 17
Detroit Ave., 5800,5806, 5808, 5810 (1st fl. & bsmt.
liquor permits (F 256-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Palecek, Addie — congratulations (R 264-09) . . .
Pugh, Erma — congratulations (R 265-09) . . . . .

& Patio) — Transfer
...................
...................
...................

of ownership application —
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 239
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240

Ward 19
Tonti, Emma — condolence (R 258-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240

Ward 20
African American Music Association Inc. — agreement — Basketball
Program — (Ward 20, 1, 2 NEF) (O 247-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Coury, Joseph E. — commemoration (R 271-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cursis, Dorthy — condolence (R 262-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eucker, Willis — condolence (R 261-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miller, Stella R. — congratulations (R 266-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Education and Recreation
.........................
.........................
.........................
.........................
.........................

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

285
240
240
240
240

Ward 21
Rocky River Dr., (East & West sides) — between Larchwood Ave. & Woodbury Ave. —
change the zoning (O 1671-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302

Water Division
Public Utilities (Division of Water) — professional service — contract — Cisco hardware
and software products (maintenance & technical support) (O 84-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288

Zoning

Rocky River Dr. (East & West sides) — between Larchwood Ave. & Woodbury Ave.
(Ward 21) (O 1671-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302

316

