The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

December the Second, Two Thousand and Nine

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Terrell H. Pruitt
Nathaniel K. Wilkes
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Mamie J. Mitchell
TJ Dow
Shari L. Cloud
Kevin Conwell
Eugene R. Miller
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Joe Cimperman
Joseph Santiago
Brian J. Cummins
Kevin J. Kelley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
23
24
25
25
26
26
26
27
27
40
40

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..................................................3877 East 189th Street
44122
Nathaniel K. Wilkes ...........................................8410 Vineyard Avenue
44105
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Shari L. Cloud ......................................................1152 East 98th Street
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Joe Cimperman..............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Joseph Santiago ...................................................3169 West 14th Street
44109
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Andrew Watterson, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker, Interim Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – _________, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNELAND HUMAN RESOURCES – Trudy Hutchinson, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Omayra G. Feliciano, Acting Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James
Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Joe Cimperman.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council
Member ____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair; Laura
M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey, Allan
Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
12B
Judge Emanuella Groves
13A
Judge Michelle D. Earley
12A
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
14B
14C
Judge Anita Laster Mays
Judge Lauren C. Moore
14A
13D
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr.
13B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
Judge Michael John Ryan
12C
15C
Judge Angela R. Stokes
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2009

Vol. 96

No. 5008

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2009
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2006-2009
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties and Recreation Committee:
Johnson, Chair; Wilkes, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek, Pruitt.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cleveland,
Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Conwell, Mitchell, Reed, Santiago.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Brady, Chair; Pruitt, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Johnson,
Polensek,
Reed,
Santiago,
Wilkes.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Dow, Chair; Keane, Vice Chair;
Cleveland, Cloud, Johnson, Reed,
Wilkes.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland,
Conwell, Kelley, Miller, Mitchell,
Polensek, Westbrook.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Brady,
Cloud, Cummins, Miller, Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee:
Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Johnson, Mitchell.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Kelley, Chair;
Keane, Vice Chair; Cleveland, Cloud,
Dow, Mitchell, Westbrook.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Cummins, Miller, Mitchell,
Polensek, Pruitt, Santiago, Zone.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice Chair;
Cummins, Keane, Kelley, Polensek,
Santiago, Westbrook, Wilkes.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chair, Westbrook, Vice Chair, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Reed, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Kelley, Keane, Polensek.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Cloud,
Kelley, Mitchell, Santiago, Sweeney, Wilkes.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Cleveland,
Chair;
Kelley,
Miller,
Sweeney, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, November 30, 2009
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Cloud, Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller, Mitchell,
Polensek, Pruitt, Reed, Santiago, Sweeney, Westbrook, Wilkes and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Frank G.
Jackson; Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff; Darnell Brown Chief Operating Officer; Chris Warren, Chief of
Regional Development; Monyka S.
Price, Chief of Education; Andrea V.
Taylor, Press Secretary; Andrew
Watterson, Chief of Sustainability;
and Directors Triozzi, Carroll, Flask,
Cox, Rush, Rybka, Nichols, Fumich,
Brown; Interim Directors Withers
and Walker; Acting Director Feliciano and Theresa Stevenson, Legislative Affairs.
Council, Administration and those
in the audience rose for a moment
of silent prayer and meditation.
Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Cloud, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Johnson.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 1770-09.
From Office of Equal Opportunity
— Compliance Report Chapter 188 —
October 2009 Bi-Monthly Report.

2187

File No. 1771-09.
From Cleveland Housing Network,
Inc., Cleveland Green Homes II —
notification of residential rental development. Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1772-09.
Re: #6546970 — C1, C2, D6 Stock
Transfer Application — 14510, Inc.,
d.b.a. Kinsman Sunoco, 14510 Kinsman Avenue. (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 1773-09.
Re:
#40739630002
—
C2,
C2X
Transfer of Ownership and Location
Application — Curtis Hunt, d.b.a.
Right On Time Food and Beverage,
6002 Woodland Avenue. (Ward 5).
Received.
File No. 1774-09.
Re: #7634550 — D5, D6 Stock
Transfer Application — Rutulian
LLC and Patio, 1303 West 6th Street,
1st Floor and Basement. (Ward 13).
Received.
File No. 1775-09.
Re: #0988201 — Dc, D2X. D3, D3A,
D6 Transfer of Ownership and Location Application — Brookview Tavern, 2168 Brookpark Road and Patio.
(Ward 16). Received.
File No. 1776-09.
Re: #0049527 — C1 New Application — Adams Adams Puritas LLC,
d.b.a. N & N Beverage, 14606 Puritas
Avenue. (Ward 20). Received.
File No. 1777-09.
Re: #5926767 — D5J New Application — Midfield Concession Enterprises, Inc., d.b.a. The Pub Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Space Mt. 210, 5300 Riverside Drive.
(Ward 20). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res.
Res.
Res.
Meeks.
Res.
liver.
Res.

No. 1778-09—Gussie Burks.
No. 1779-09—King Thompson.
No. 1780-09 — Edna CollinsNo. 1781-09 — Stephanie TolNo. 1782-09—John Martin.

CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1783-09—Kenneth E. Marblestone.

The City Record

4
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1749-09.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Dow (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Sections 463.01 to 463.07 and
463.99 relating to valet services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Sections 463.01 to 463.07 and 463.99 to
read as follows:
CHAPTER 463
Valet Services
Section 463.01 Definitions
(a) “Motor vehicle” means any
vehicle as defined in division (B) of
Section 4501.01 of the Revised Code.
(b) “Operator” means a person
who conducts a parking service,
whether in the capacity of owner,
principal, agent, lessee, mortgagee
in possession, licensee, or any other
capacity.
(c) “Parking facility” means any
lot, land, building, garage, structure,
enclosure, premises, parcel, yard,
indoor or outdoor area, or any portion thereof, except a public way,
within the City offering three or
more parking spaces.
(d) “Parking fee” means the total
consideration required to be paid by
a patron to a parking service in
exchange for parking occupancy.
The total consideration shall be valued in money, and shall include the
value of all receipts including, but
not limited to, cash, credits, property or services of any kind or nature,
whether or not such consideration
was actually received by the operator of the parking service. A required charge shall not avoid classification as a parking fee by its
designation as an ancillary charge
for any other purported purpose separate from parking occupancy.
(e) “Parking occupancy” or “occupancy” means the use, or the right
of use, of parking space in or on a
parking facility for parking, housing, or storing a motor vehicle or
other related act thereof, whether
such use is by way of lease, concession, permit, right of access,
license to use, or other agreement.
(f) “Parking service” means the
act of offering parking space in or
on a parking facility for purposes of
occupancy by a patron in exchange
for a parking fee. The term includes, but is not limited to, valet
services, self-park services, honor
lot parking, parking garages, attended parking lots, or any other
form of service or facility offering
parking space in or on a parking
facility for purposes of occupancy
by a patron in exchange for a parking fee.
(g) “Parking space” means any
space where or in which a single

motor
vehicle
may
be
parked,
housed, stored, or kept at any one
time, regardless if that space is designated or designed for such use.
(h) “Patron” means a person who
pays a parking fee to an operator
in exchange for parking occupancy
by the person or another by way of
validation or otherwise.
(i) “Person” means any natural
person, partnership, joint venture,
joint stock company, corporation,
estate, trust, business trust, receiver,
administrator, executor, assignee, trustee in bankruptcy, firm, company,
association, club, syndicate, society,
municipal corporation, the State of
Ohio, political subdivision of the
State of Ohio, the United States,
instrumentality of the United States,
or any group or combination acting
as a unit, whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit or otherwise.
(j) “Valet” or “valet service” means
a parking service requiring the surrender of custody or control of a
patron’s motor vehicle to the operator for the purpose of parking occupancy at a location different from
the place of surrender.
Section 463.02
License Required;
Fee
(a) License Required. No person
shall engage in the business of providing a valet service within the
City unless and until licensed in
accordance with this chapter.
(b) License Application. Every
applicant for a license to operate a
valet service shall make application
in writing to the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses, which
shall include an application fee of
fifty-five dollars ($55.00) and set
forth or include the following:
(1) The name and address of the
applicant, and if a partnership, the
names and addresses of all partners,
and if a corporation, the name, date
and state under which incorporated,
and the names and addresses of the
officers of the applicant and its
statutory agent, if any.
(2) The name, address, and parking place license number issued pursuant to Chapter 457 of the Codified
Ordinances of each parking facility
used in connection with the applicant valet service’s operations.
(3) A sworn statement of compliance with Chapter 196 of the Codified Ordinances.
(4) A certificate of insurance evidencing insurance coverage as prescribed by subsection (c) of this section.
(5) Such other information as the
Commissioner deems pertinent or
necessary to carry into effect the
provisions of this chapter.
(c) Insurance Required. Each applicant shall furnish, at the time of
application, a policy or certificate of
insurance, by an insurance carrier
licensed to do business in the State,
acceptable to and approved by the
Commissioner and the Director of
Law, evidencing the applicant as
the insured on a comprehensive general liability insurance policy in an
amount not less than five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000). The insured shall provide the City with
written notice of cancellation no

2188

December 2, 2009
less than ten (10) days before the
date the policy is to be cancelled or
terminated.
(d) Issuance. Upon approval of
the application, the Commissioner of
Assessments
and
Licenses
shall
issue the license and, as evidence
thereof, a certificate bearing the
license number and applicant information. The license, or a copy of the
license, shall be required to be maintained on the premises of operation
and made immediately available to
patrons and/or representatives of
the City upon request.
(e) Term. All licenses issued
under this chapter shall be valid for
the calendar year for which such
license is issued, expiring on the
thirty-first (31st) day of December
of the year for which such license
is issued, unless sooner revoked by
the Commissioner.
(f) License Non-Transferable. No
license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be assigned or transferrable to any other person.
(g) Renewal. The Commissioner
of Assessments and Licenses shall
accept renewal applications at least
fifteen (15) days before the expiration of the license being renewed.
Section 463.03 Denial, Suspension,
or Revocation
The Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses may deny, suspend, or
revoke any license granted under
this chapter upon the Commissioner’s determination of a violation of
this chapter, a rule or regulation
promulgated hereunder, or where
the applicant or license holder has
failed to comply with the provisions
of, or remit all amounts due under,
Chapter 196 of the Codified Ordinances.
Section 463.04 Identification Badges
No person who operates a valet
service shall fail to cause each
employee or other person who performs valet services to wear in a
conspicuous place on his or her person an identification badge that
displays the name and license number of the valet service along with
a unique badge serial number assigned by the valet service.
Section 463.05 Rules and Regulations
The Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses is authorized to promulgate such rules and regulations,
not inconsistent with the provisions
of this chapter, as he shall deem
necessary to carry out the intent of
this chapter. Such rules and regulations shall become effective ten (10)
days after their publication in the
City Record or at such later time as
may be specified by the Commissioner.
Section 463.06 Civil Penalties for
Violations
The Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses shall assess fines in
accordance with the rules and regulations issued under the authority
of Section 463.05 for violations of the
rules and regulations. The authority to assess fines under this section
does not limit or affect any criminal offense, or the authority of the

December 2, 2009
Commissioner to suspend or revoke
a license, or any other means of
enforcement of this chapter as provided herein. The amount of the fine
shall be in an amount not to exceed
one-thousand dollars ($1,000) per
violation.
Section 463.07 Application
(a) Effective Date. This chapter
shall be effective as of January 1,
2010. The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall accept
applications for license as provided
in this chapter beginning at least
fifteen (15) days before the effective date.
(b) Other Sections Unaffected.
The license required by this chapter
shall be in addition to any other
license required under these Codified
Ordinances
and
specifically
shall not limit, abrogate, or impair
the operation or necessity of any
valet zone permit established and
required by §451.33 of these Codified
Ordinances.
(c) Savings Clause. If any sentence, clause, section or part of this
chapter is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality or invalidity
shall affect only such clause, sentence, section or part of this chapter so found and shall not affect or
impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or
other parts of this chapter. It is the
intention of Council that this chapter would have been adopted had
such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence, clause, section or
part thereof not been included in
this chapter.
Section 463.08 Appeals
Licensure shall be under the control of the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses. In case of the
refusal to issue a license or the
revocation or suspension of a license
by the Commissioner, or the assessment of a civil penalty pursuant to
§463.06, the applicant or licensee
may appeal such determination to
the Board of Zoning Appeals established pursuant to Charter §76-6, provided that written appeal is filed
with the Board Secretary within ten
(10) days of the date the decision
being appealed was made. The
Board shall conduct a hearing and
render a decision in accordance with
City ordinances and regulations governing its conduct and procedure.
The Commissioner or any proper
party may appeal the Board’s decision pursuant to Chapter 2506 of the
Revised Code or as otherwise provided by law.
Section 463.99 Penalty
Any person found guilty of violating Section 463.02(a) or 463.04 of
this chapter is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on the first offense
and is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree on the second and
any subsequent offense. Each day of
a continuing violation is a separate
offense.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committees on Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1750-09.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with ProTech Security, Inc. for professional services necessary to install and connect a license plate
recognition system, IP video management and archiving systems, and
also Milestone and SightLogix security systems and peripherals, including integration and other services,
at various Division of Water facility sites.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with ProTech Security, Inc. for professional
services
necessary
to
install and connect a license plate
recognition system, IP video management and archiving systems, and
also Milestone and SightLogix security systems and peripherals, including integration and other services,
at various Division of Water facility sites, on the basis of its proposal dated September 28, 2009, in a
sum not to exceed $200,000, for the
Department of Public Utilities. The
contract or contracts shall be paid
from Fund No. 50 SF 002, 52 SF 001,
52 SF 229, and 52 SF 501, Request
No. 199137.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1751-09.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of decorative
post lights, including installation,
for the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period not to exceed two
years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

2189

5
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a two-year period of
the necessary items of decorative
post lights, including installation,
in the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities. Bids shall
be taken in a manner that permits
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies until provision is made for
the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the
Director of Finance. (RL 184296)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Public
Utilities may sign all documents
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1752-09.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the
Director
of
Public
Health to apply for and accept a
grant from the Ohio Department of
Health for the 2010 STD Control
Prevention Program; and authorizing the Director to enter into contracts with Planned Parenthood of
Northeast Ohio and the Free Clinic
of Greater Cleveland to implement
the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

6
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $173,403, and
any other funds as they become
available during the grant term,
from the Ohio Department of Health,
to conduct the 2010 STD Control Prevention Program, for the purposes in
the summary and budget and according thereto; that the Director of
Public Health is authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes in the summary and budget
for the grant.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1752-09-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the
public hearing on this legislation, is
approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with
Planned Parenthood of Northeast
Ohio and The Free Clinic of Greater
Cleveland to implement the grant as
described in the file.
Section 4. That the contract or
contracts shall be paid from the
fund or funds which are credited the
proceeds of the grant accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Health and Human Services,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1755-09.
By Council Members Conwell, Dow
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to repeal
Section 135.13 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 372-53,
passed March 9, 1953, relating to
working hours for the Division of
Police.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 135.13 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 372-53, passed March
9, 1953, is repealed.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1756-09.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance allocating a portion of the City’s Recovery
Zone Economic Development Bonds
allocation to finance a portion of the
costs of public improvements related to the Flats East Development
Project; authorizing a cooperative
agreement relating to the bonds; approving terms of the bonds; accepting a completion guaranty; and
authorizing and approving related
matters.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 656-06 passed by the Council of
the City on April 24, 2006, this Council
authorized
the
Director
of
Finance to pay the debt service on
not to exceed $11,000,000 of obligations issued by the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority (“Port
Authority”), subject to annual appropriation, for the purpose of constructing various public improvements within the Flats East Bank
Community Plan area, as described
in Ordinance No. 1644-05, passed
October
17,
2005,
including
the
authority to execute a cooperative
agreement and all other documents
necessary to pay the debt service,
provided the City does not issue the
obligations and provided the City
enters into a Development Agreement with the Port Authority and
Flats East Development LLC; and
Whereas,
the
City,
the
Port
Authority and Flats East Development LLC have entered into a Project Development Agreement dated
May 22, 2006, as amended (the “Development Agreement”); and
Whereas, the City has requested
that the Port Authority issue bonds
in the aggregate principal amount of
not to exceed $11,000,000 (“Bonds”)
in order to finance the acquisition
of certain real property (“Property”)
by the City to be used as public
streets and to finance the acquisition, construction and installation of
certain public improvements consisting of streets, public walkways,
parks and other public spaces (“Public Improvements”), and to fund a
bond reserve fund from the proceeds
of the Bonds, if necessary for the
sale of the Bonds, together with
issuance costs related thereto under
the terms of a Cooperative Agreement to be entered into among the

2190

December 2, 2009
City, the Port Authority, Flats East
Development LLC (“Flats East”),
FED/Main Street LLC (together with
Flats East, the “Developer”) and
The Huntington National Bank, as
trustee (“Cooperative Agreement”);
and
Whereas, the American Recovery
and
Reinvestment
Act
of
2009
(“ARRA”) revised the Internal Revenue Code (“Code”) to create Recovery Zone Economic Development
Bonds which may only be issued for
projects located within a designated
Recovery Zone; and
Whereas,
under
Code
Sections
1400U-1 through 1400U-3, the City
has been allocated $16,590,000 for
the issuance of Recovery Zone Economic Development Bonds; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1384-09 passed by the Council of
the City on October 5, 2009, this
Council designated the entire geographical territory of the City of
Cleveland as a Recovery Zone under
Code Section 1400U-1 and determined
that the Port Authority is an eligible issuer of Recovery Zone Bonds;
and
Whereas, this Council desires to
allocate up to $11,000,000 of its Recovery Zone Economic Development
Bonds allocation to finance the cost
of the acquisition of the Property
and a portion of the cost of the construction of the Public Improvements, subject to the conditions
described in this Ordinance; and
Whereas, this Council has determined to authorize the payment of
the principal of, premium, if any
and interest on the Bonds (“Debt
Service Charges”) and Administrative Expenses (defined below), subject to annual appropriation, in
accordance with the terms of the
Cooperative Agreement and as provided in this Ordinance, and to
authorize the signing of the Cooperative Agreement; and
Whereas, the City intends to accept one or more completion guaranties (the “Completion Guaranty”)
from the Developer, Scott A. Wolstein, and The Iris Wolstein Trust
(collectively, the “Project Guarantors”) guarantying completion of the
Public Improvements; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department and providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that approving the
Cooperative Agreement is necessary
to finance the acquisition of the
Property and the construction of the
Public Improvements to provide for
needed City streets that will improve the flow of traffic and eliminate blighted conditions and prevent
the recurrence of blight in the Flats
East Bank Community Plan area
and to provide additional public
parks and open space in the area;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition
to the words and terms defined in
the Cooperative Agreement, the following words and terms shall have
the following meanings unless the
context or use clearly indicates

December 2, 2009
another or different meaning or
intent:
“Administrative Expenses” includes
the fees and reasonable expenses of
the Trustee, the annual fee of the
Port Authority as issuer of the
Bonds, amounts required pursuant
to the Trust Indenture to be deposited in the rebate fund created therein and to enforce any provisions of
the Cooperative Agreement, and any
amounts other than Debt Service
Charges required to be paid under
the Cooperative Agreement or under
the Trust Indenture in connection
with the Bonds.
“Appropriation Payments” means
the payment related to the Bonds to
be made by the City pursuant to,
and in accordance with the schedule
attached as an exhibit to, the Cooperative Agreement, which payments
are subject to annual appropriation
by this Council.
“Bond Purchase Agreement” means,
with respect to the Bonds, the Bond
Purchase
Agreement
among
the
City, the Port Authority, the Trustee
and the Original Purchasers for the
Bonds or a representative of those
Original Purchasers.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby securities purchase
agreement or other credit enhancement, support or liquidity device
used to enhance the security or liquidity of any Bonds.
“Financial Advisor” means any
financial advisory firm or firms
retained by the Director of Finance
of the City, from time to time, pursuant to Section 8 of this Ordinance.
“Original Purchasers” means, with
respect to the Bonds, the financial
institution or institutions identified
as such in the Bond Purchase Agreement.
“Purchase
Price”
means,
with
respect to the Bonds, the amount
specified in the Bond Purchase
Agreement to be paid by the Original Purchasers for the purchase of
the Bonds, provided that amount
shall be not less than (i) 97% of the
amount determined by adding to the
aggregate principal amount of the
Bonds any aggregate original issue
premium and subtracting from that
amount
any
aggregate
original
issue discount and any premium or
other costs of any Credit Support
Instrument purchased from the proceeds of the Bonds, plus (ii) any
accrued interest on the Bonds from
their date to the date of their delivery to the Original Purchasers.
“Tax-Exempt Bonds” means bonds
that are issued and sold as obligations to which Section 103 of the
Code applies, the interest on which
is excluded from gross income for
federal income tax purposes.
“Tax Status” means the status of
the Bonds as Tax-Exempt Bonds or
Recovery Zone Economic Development Bonds, as applicable.
“Trust Indenture” means the Trust
Indenture between the Port Authority and the Trustee providing for
the issuance of the Bonds.
“Trustee” means The Huntington
National Bank.
Section 2. Determinations by Council. This Council finds and determines as follows:

The City Record
(a) Public Purpose. The acquisition of the Property to be used for
public streets and the financing of
the construction of the Public Improvements in the Flats East Community Plan area serves a proper
public municipal purpose.
(b) Cooperation with Port Authority. It is necessary, proper and in
the best interest of the City to
request the Port Authority to issue
the Bonds and for the Port Authority to own the public plaza to be
constructed as part of the Public
Improvements, all consistent with
the terms of Revised Code Sections
4582.01 through 4582.20 and the Cooperative Agreement.
(c) Cooperative Agreement. It is
necessary, proper and in the best
interest of the City to authorize the
Cooperative Agreement to provide
for, among other things, (i) the
issuance of the Bonds by the Port
Authority to pay costs of the acquisition of the Property and the construction of the Public Improvements, (ii) the provision of semiannual or annual Appropriation
Payments to pay Debt Service
Charges on the Bonds and Administrative Expenses, (iii) disbursement of the proceeds of the Bonds
for the acquisition of the Property
and the construction of the Public
Improvements and (iv) the terms
and conditions of the purchase and
acquisition of the Property and the
terms and conditions of the construction of the Public Improvements.
This Council finds and determines
that the issuance of the Bonds and
the signing and delivery of the
Cooperative Agreement in connection with such issuance for the purpose provided in this Ordinance
serves a proper, public, municipal
purpose.
Section 3. Recovery Zone Allocation. This Council authorizes an
amount not to exceed $11 million of
its Recovery Zone Economic Development Bond allocation to the Port
Authority to use the proceeds of its
issue of Recovery Zone Economic
Development Revenue Bonds for
qualified economic development purposes under Code Section 1400U-2
and as provided in the Cooperative
Agreement, provided that the Director of Finance has determined in
accordance with Section 5(a) of this
Ordinance that it is in the City’s
best interests given prevailing conditions in the financial markets that
the Bonds be issued as Recovery
Zone Economic Development Revenue Bonds. This Council hereby
authorizes the Port Authority to
issue Recovery Zone Economic Development Bonds pursuant to such
allocation for the acquisition of the
Property, the construction of the
Public Improvements and related
costs. This allocation is contingent
upon bond counsel delivering a satisfactory opinion to the City that the
issuance and use of proceeds of the
Bonds comply with the requirements
of the Code, including Code Section
1400U-2. This allocation will terminate on June 30, 2010 unless the
Bonds are issued on or before June
30, 2010.

2191

7
Section 4. Recovery Zone Documentation. This Council authorizes
the Mayor, the Director of Economic
Development, the Director of Finance,
the Director of Law or any other
appropriate official to sign, deliver,
or file any documents, agreements,
or certificates in connection with
the allocation of the Recovery Zone
Economic Development Bonds, as
may be required by ARRA, the Code,
the Treasury regulations promulgated under the Code, and any other
applicable statute or regulation, as
the Mayor, the Director of Economic Development, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law or any
other appropriate official deems necessary and appropriate.
Section 5. Determination of Bond
Terms; Application of Proceeds.
(a) Tax Status. Upon the determination of the Director of Finance,
which may be based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
it is to the financial advantage of
the City and in the City’s best interests given prevailing conditions in
the financial markets, the Director
of Finance is authorized to determine whether the Bonds shall be
issued as Recovery Zone Economic
Development Bonds or as Tax-Exempt Bonds, which determination
shall be specified in a certificate
providing for the final terms of the
Bonds and signed by the Director of
Finance (the “Final Terms Certificate”).
(b) Principal Components and
Term. Upon the determination of the
Director of Finance, which may be
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that it is to the
financial advantage of the City and
in the City’s best interests, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
cooperate with the Port Authority to
negotiate and provide for the terms
of the Bonds and the Appropriation
Payments, which Appropriation Payments shall be equal to the Debt Service Charges on the Bonds plus the
amount of Administrative Expenses.
The aggregate principal amount of
the Bonds and the corresponding
principal component of Appropriation Payments shall be equal to the
principal amount specified in the
Final Terms Certificate, which in
the aggregate shall not exceed
$11,000,000, and shall be used (i) to
pay the cost of the acquisition of the
Property and a portion of the costs
of the construction of the Public
Improvements, (ii) to pay costs of
any
Credit
Support
Instruments,
(iii) to fund a bond reserve fund
from the proceeds of the Bonds, if
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance in the Final Terms Certificate to be necessary for the sale of
the Bonds, (iv) to pay any capitalized interest due in 2010, and Administrative Expenses that may be due
during that period and (v) to pay
costs of issuing the Bonds. The
Bonds shall mature on the dates
beginning no later than December 1,
2012 and no earlier than February 1,
2011 and ending no less than 20
years and no more than 27 years
thereafter and shall mature in annual or semi-annual installments in the
principal amounts (either by princi-

8
pal maturity date or redemption
date) such that the total principal
and interest payments due on the
Bonds in any fiscal year (a) in
which principal is payable and there
are two semi-annual interest payments (if principal is payable annually) or (b) in which there are two
semi-annual principal and interest
payments (if principal is payable
semi-annually), in either case is not
more than three times the amount
of those payments in any other fiscal year, all as to be set forth in the
Final Terms Certificate and the
Bond Purchase Agreement, and to
be consistent with this Ordinance,
the Cooperative Agreement and the
Trust Indenture.
(c) Interest. The Bonds shall be
issued as obligations bearing interest at a fixed rate or rates not to
exceed 8.0% with respect to any
maturity if the Bonds are issued as
Recovery Zone Economic Development Bonds or not to exceed 6.0%
with respect to any maturity if the
Bonds are issued as Tax-Exempt
Bonds, based on the determination
of the Director of Finance as to the
financial advantage to, and best
interests of, the City given prevailing conditions in the financial
markets, as specified in the Final
Terms Certificate. Interest on the
Bonds shall be payable semiannually
beginning
not
later
than
August 1, 2011.
(d) Credit Support Instruments.
The Director of Finance is authorized to approve one or more Credit Support Instruments, if the Director of Finance determines, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, that the Credit Support
Instruments will result in a savings in the cost of the financing to
the City, which determination shall
be specified in the Final Terms
Certificate. The costs of such Credit Support Instruments shall be
paid from proceeds of the Bonds or
from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose, as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance.
(e) Appropriation Payments. The
Appropriation Payments to be payable under and in accordance with
the Cooperative Agreement during
any fiscal year shall be an amount
sufficient to cover the semi-annual
or annual Debt Service Charges on
the Bonds that are due and payable
during that fiscal year and the
Administrative Expenses that are
due and payable during that fiscal
year, and such Appropriation Payments shall be specified in an
exhibit to the Cooperative Agreement; provided, however, that the
City’s payment of Appropriation
Payments is subject to appropriation as provided in the Cooperative
Agreement and nothing in the
Cooperative Agreement, the Bonds
or the Trust Indenture constitutes
or shall constitute a pledge by the
City, or an obligation of the City,
of any taxes or other moneys to the
payments due thereunder.
(f) Redemption. The Bonds may
be subject to redemption if the closing of the Property does not occur

The City Record
by the date and under the circumstances as provided in the Cooperative Agreement.
The Bonds also may be subject to
redemption by the Port Authority,
solely at the direction of the City,
including, but not limited to, any
redemption that the City may direct
if all or a portion of the credit payments from the federal government
associated with Recovery Zone Economic Development Bonds are no
longer being paid or if a change
has occurred to the Code that
impacts the amount of the credit
payments to be paid to the City
(“RZEDB Redemption”), in each
case, with such premium as is
agreed
to
by
the
Director
of
Finance upon her determination
that it is to the financial advantage
of the City and in the City’s best
interests and consistent with Section 6 hereof and as set forth in the
Final Terms Certificate.
(h) Primary Offering Disclosure.
If, in the judgment of the Director
of Finance after consultation with
the Port Authority and the Original
Purchasers, a disclosure document
is appropriate relating to the initial offering of the Bonds, the
Director of Finance, on behalf of
the City and in that officer’s official capacity, is authorized to (i)
cooperate with the Port Authority
and the Original Purchasers in the
preparation of, and the making
of modifications, completions or
changes of or supplements to, such
a disclosure document, (ii) determine, and certify or otherwise represent when the disclosure document is to be deemed final or is
final, (iii) authorize the use and
distribution of that disclosure document and any supplements thereto in connection with the initial
offering of the Bonds, and (iv)
sign
certificates,
statements
or
other documents in connection with
the finality, accuracy and completeness of that disclosure document.
(i) Continuing Disclosure. If and
to the extent required by Rule 15c212 (the “Rule”) promulgated by the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) in connection with the
sale of the Bonds, the Director of
Finance shall enter into a continuing disclosure agreement on behalf
of the City, approved as to form and
correctness by the Director of Law,
among the City, the Port Authority
and the Trustee, with terms not
inconsistent with this Ordinance and
as may be approved by the Director
of Finance signing that agreement
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
that signing. In each such continuing disclosure agreement, the City
shall agree to provide, or cause to
be provided, to the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (“MSRB”)
established by the SEC, in an electronic format as prescribed by the
MSRB, such as its Electronic Municipal Market Access system, the
annual financial information and
operating data and notices of specified events required by that Rule, as
more particularly described in the
continuing
disclosure
agreement.

2192

December 2, 2009
The Director of Finance is authorized to sign and deliver each continuing disclosure agreement and
any related agreements, certificates
and other instruments, and to deliver such information, as may be necessary or appropriate to comply
with the requirements of the Rule.
The City understands and agrees
that those commitments are intended to be for the benefit of the holders from time to time of the Bonds,
including
holders
of
book-entry
interests in those Bonds.
(j) Application for Ratings. If, in
the judgment of the Director of
Finance, the filing of applications
for one or more ratings on the
Bonds by one or more nationally
recognized rating agencies is necessary or desirable for marketing
purposes, the Director of Finance is
authorized to cooperate with the
Port Authority to provide information as may be required in support
of applications for that purpose.
The cost of obtaining each such
rating, except to the extent paid by
the Original Purchasers in accordance with the Bond Purchase
Agreement, shall be paid from the
proceeds of the Bonds to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money made available by the Port
Authority.
(k) Application of Proceeds. The
proceeds from the sale of the Bonds
shall be deposited and applied as
provided in the Cooperative Agreement and the Trust Indenture and
for the purposes stated in this Ordinance.
Section 6. Sale of the Bonds; Bond
Purchase Agreement. The Director
of Finance shall sign and deliver
the Final Terms Certificate referred
to herein and a Bond Purchase
Agreement for the Bonds, on a date
she deems appropriate, setting forth
the conditions for delivery of the
Bonds that are consistent with this
Ordinance, the Cooperative Agreement and the Trust Indenture that
are determined by the Director of
Finance, which may be based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, to be customary for bonds that
are subject to appropriation issued
by governmental entities, including,
without limitation, representations
as to the accuracy and completeness
of information contained in the disclosure document described in Section 5 of this Ordinance. The Bond
Purchase Agreement shall provide
for the sale of the Bonds to the Original Purchasers selected by the Port
Authority and approved by the
Director of Finance and identified
in the Bond Purchase Agreement,
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of firms that have proposed to underwrite the Bonds.
In addition to the terms required
to be set forth in the Bond Purchase
Agreement in Section 5 hereof, the
Bond Purchase Agreement shall set
forth the following, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, consistent with this Ordinance:
(a) the Purchase Price for the
Bonds;
(b) whether any Bonds are to be
subject to redemption prior to maturity, and, if so, the earliest redemp-

December 2, 2009
tion date for those Bonds subject to
prior redemption, which shall be not
later than twelve years from the
first interest payment date, and the
applicable redemption price, which
shall be not greater than 102% of
the principal amount redeemed, except that in the event of a RZEDB
Redemption or a redemption due to
a failure to timely close the purchase of the Property the premium
may be up to an amount agreed to
by the Director of Finance that is
calculated to make the bond holders
fully whole for such prepayment;
(c) the title and series designation for the Bonds;
(d) whether any Bonds are to be
secured by or payable from a Credit Support Instrument.
It is determined that the terms of
the Bonds and the corresponding
terms of Appropriation Payments
as so determined within the limitations set forth in this Ordinance
and as so specified and set forth in
the Bond Purchase Agreement will
be in the best interest of the City
and consistent with all legal requirements.
Section 7. Authorization of Cooperative Agreement; Additional Documents.
In
connection
with
the
issuance of the Bonds, the Director
of Finance and the Director of Economic Development are authorized,
in the name and on behalf of the
City and on a date those officers
deem appropriate, to sign and deliver the Cooperative Agreement, approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, substantially in the form in File No. 1756-09-A,
together with such changes that are
not adverse to the City as may be
approved by the officers signing the
same on behalf of the City. The
determination by those officers that
the Cooperative Agreement is not
adverse to the City shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing and
delivery of that Cooperative Agreement by those officers.
The Mayor, the Director of Economic Development, the Director of
Finance, the Clerk, the Director of
Law and other City officials are
authorized to sign and deliver and
accept delivery of such instruments,
certificates and documents as are
necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions authorized by
this
Ordinance,
the
Cooperative
Agreement and the Bond Purchase
Agreement.
The Mayor, the Director of Economic Development, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law and
other City officials, as appropriate,
are authorized to make the necessary arrangements on behalf of the
City and cooperate with the Port
Authority to establish the date, location, procedure and conditions for
the delivery of the Bonds to the
Original Purchasers and to take all
actions necessary to effect due signing, authentication and delivery of
the Bonds under the terms of this
Ordinance, the Cooperative Agreement and the Bond Purchase Agreement. The Clerk of Council or other
appropriate official of the City shall
furnish the Original Purchasers a
true transcript of proceedings certi-

The City Record
fied by the Clerk or other official,
of all proceedings had with reference to the authorization of the
Cooperative Agreement and the payment of Debt Service Charges on the
Bonds
and
the
Administrative
Expenses.
Section 8. Authorization. Notwithstanding and as an exception to
the provisions of Chapter 181 and
183 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to purchase the Property generally described in the Cooperative Agreement placed in the
above-mentioned file, and as further described in a legal description to be approved by the Director
of Public Services at the time the
Property is conveyed.
Section 9. Fair Market Value. The
consideration to be paid for the
Property shall equal the fair market
value of the Property, as determined
by an appraisal reasonably satisfactory to the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies and the Developer, with such reductions therefrom
as are deemed necessary by the
Director of Law and the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
and as are acceptable to the Developer, all as agreed to on or before
the date of issuance of the Bonds
and subject to the further provisions
set forth in the Cooperative Agreement.
Section 10. Completion Guaranty.
This Council hereby approves the
acceptance of a Completion Guaranty from the Project Guarantors or
such other affiliated entities as are
approved by the Director of Finance.
The Director of Finance is authorized to sign a Completion Guaranty on behalf of the City in form and
substance approved by the Director
of Law as being consistent with the
objectives and requirements of this
Ordinance, all of which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing
of the Completion Guaranty.
Section 11. Tax Covenants. The
Director of Finance, as the fiscal
officer is, alone or in conjunction
with any other officer or employee
of the City, authorized to cooperate
with the Original Purchasers and
the Trustee by making, on behalf of
the City, such covenants and representations in the Cooperative Agreement as are appropriate and necessary so that (a) any Bonds issued
as Tax-Exempt Bonds will not (i)
constitute private activity bonds,
arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds
under Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the
Code or (ii) be treated other than as
obligations to which Section 103(a)
of the Code applies, (b) the interest
on any Bonds issued as Tax-Exempt
Bonds will not be treated as an item
of tax preference under Section 57
of the Code, and (c) any Bonds
issued as Recovery Zone Economic
Development
Bonds
qualify
and
remain qualified as Recovery Zone
Economic Development Bonds. The
City hereby covenants it will take
or cause to be taken such actions
that may be required of it for the
interest on any Bonds issued as
Tax-Exempt Bonds to be and remain
excluded from gross income for fed-

2193

9
eral income tax purposes and that it
will not take or authorize to be
taken any actions that would adversely affect the Tax Status of the
Bonds.
Section 12. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more Financial
Advisors, from time to time, to
assist the Director of Finance in
making any of the determinations
required by this Ordinance to be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Director of Finance
may rely on the written advice of
any Financial Advisor so retained.
Any Financial Advisor or consultant
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent
of the underwriters or counterparties and any other party interested
in the transaction.
Section 13. Interpretation. Any provisions of the Codified Ordinances
of the City which are inconsistent
with the provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to the Bonds
or matters authorized herein. Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to,
and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, indentures, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City.
Section 14. Validity. It is found
and determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that all applicable provisions of the City's Charter and the rules of this Council
have been fully complied with and
this Ordinance was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 15. Severability. Each section of this Ordinance and each subdivision or paragraph of any section
is hereby declared to be independent, and the finding or holding of
any section or any subdivision or
paragraph of any section to be
invalid or void shall not be deemed
or held to affect the validity of any
other section, subdivision or paragraph of this Ordinance.
Section 16. Compliance with Open
Meeting Law. It is hereby found and
determined that all formal actions
of this Council concerning and relating to the passage of this Ordinance
were taken in an open meeting of
this Council, and that all deliberations of this Council and of any of
its committees that resulted in those
formal actions were in meetings
open to the public, in compliance
with all applicable legal requirements.
Section 17. Sunset of Authorization. Except for those provisions in
Section 3 that expire on June 30,
2010, the authority granted by this
Ordinance shall expire one year
from the effective date of this Ordinance. If a preliminary disclosure
document with respect to the issuance of the Bonds is distributed
under the authority of this Ordinance at any time within the oneyear period following its effective
date, then the authority granted by
this Ordinance shall not expire as to

10
the Bonds. The Director of Finance
shall notify the Chairman of the
Finance Committee and the Clerk of
this Council of the initiation of the
issuance of the Bonds pursuant to
the authority of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Emergency. This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all the members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its adoption and approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1757-09.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1892-05,
passed February 13, 2006, relating to
contract with Flats East Development,
LLC, and/or the Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County Port Authority to provide development assistance to partially
finance the acquisition of land for
retail, multi-family rental housing
and/or parking facilities at the Project
Site and the construction at the Project site of parking facilities to support retail and/or multifamily rental
housing uses at the Project Site.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1892-05, passed February
13, 2006 is amended as follows:
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan or loans shall be according to
the terms set forth in the Summary
contained in File No. 1892-05-D, as
presented to the Finance Committee
of this Council at the public hearing
on this legislation and shall not be
changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 1. That existing Section 2
of Ordinance No. 1892-05, passed February 13, 2006 is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1758-09.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing a cooperative agreement with
the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port

The City Record
Authority and Flats East Development LLC relating to the issuance
and repayment of tax increment
financing bonds; implementing Ordinance No. 1379-09 declaring certain
improvements to be for a public purpose and making provision for the
collection of service payments in
lieu of taxes pursuant to Sections
5709.41 to 5709.43 of the Revised
Code to pay debt service on certain
bonds; and authorizing and approving related matters.
Whereas, the City, the ClevelandCuyahoga County Port Authority
(the
“CCCPA”)
and
Flats
East
Development LLC (the “Developer”)
entered into a Project Development
Agreement dated May 22, 2006, as
amended (the “Development Agreement”) for the improvement of the
property within the Plan Area pursuant to the Plan, including the
Property as defined in the TIF Ordinance mentioned hereafter; and
Whereas, as part of its activities
for carrying out redevelopment activities and to eliminate blighted
conditions and prevent the recurrence of blight, and to satisfy the
requirements of Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, the City authorized in Ordinance 1378-09 passed
October 5, 2009 the acquisition from
and re-conveyance to the Developer
and its affiliate FED/Main Street
LLC (the “Developer Partner”) certain real property (the “TIF Property”), which TIF Property is located in the Plan Area, for the construction of improvements for sale
or lease consistent with the Plan
(the “Flats Project”); and
Whereas, Ohio Revised Code Sections 5709.41 to 5709.43 (the “TIF
Act”) provide that the Council of the
City may describe public improvements to be made that directly benefit certain parcels of real property,
declare improvements with respect
to such parcels located in the City
to be a public purpose, authorize the
exemption of those improvements
from real property taxation for a
period of time, and provide for the
making of service payments in lieu
of taxes by the owner of such
parcels; and
Whereas, pursuant to the TIF Act
and Section 553.02.06 of Am. Sub.
H.B. 66 eff. June 30, 2005, in Ordinance 1379-09 passed October 5, 2009
the City determined it necessary and
appropriate and in the best interests
of carrying out the Plan and in the
best interests of the City to declare
Improvements (as defined in Section
5709.41 of the TIF Act) to the TIF
Property
a
public
purpose
and
exempt from real property taxation
for 30 years commencing in tax year
2009, and to provide for annual service payments in lieu of taxes with
respect to the TIF Property (“Service Payments”); and
Whereas, the TIF Property is
located in the Cleveland Municipal
School District, which School District approved the real property tax
exemption provided for in Ordinance 1379-09 and waived notice
requirements on the condition that
a compensation agreement authorized by the School District be
entered into by the City relating to

2194

December 2, 2009
the Plan Area (the “School Agreement”); and
Whereas, the Flats Project is necessary to eliminate blighted conditions and prevent the recurrence of
blight in the Plan Area, and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1384-09 passed by the Council of
the City on October 5, 2009, this Council allocated a limitation amount of
$24,885,000 to the Flats Project for
the issuance of tax exempt Recovery Zone Facility Bonds as defined
in that Ordinance, as to which a
cooperative agreement has been
authorized by the Council of the
City in Ordinance No. 1759-09; and
Whereas, this Council has passed
numerous other pieces of legislation
to assist the Flats Project and to
provide for public improvements
within the Plan Area and related to
the TIF Property; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ohio Revised Code Chapter 4582, the City
has requested that the CCCPA,
through the Port of Cleveland Bond
Fund (“POCBF”), the Summit County Port Authority (“SCPA”) through
the Summit County Port Authority
Bond Fund (“SCPABF”), and the
Treasurer of the State of Ohio
(“Treasurer”)
through
the
Ohio
Enterprise Bond Fund (“OEBF”)
(collectively the “Issuers”) assist in
the financing of the Project through
the issuance of obligations, both
taxable and tax-exempt, payable, in
whole or in part, by a pledge of the
Service Payments (collectively the
“TIF Bonds”); and
Whereas, proceeds of a portion of
the TIF Bonds will provide funds
for a commercial office building
(the “Office Improvements”) and proceeds of a portion of the TIF Bonds
will provide public infrastructure
improvements including the acquisition, construction and installation of
certain public improvements consisting of streets, public walkways,
parks and other public spaces (“Public Improvements”); and
Whereas, other funds provided by
or through the City, the State of
Ohio, the County of Cuyahoga, the
Cleveland Development Partnership,
the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (“HUD”), and
other public and private entities
have been committed to the Flats
Project (the “Other Project Loans”),
to be repaid through the subordinated pledge of Service Payments;
and
Whereas, the City intends to enter
into a Cooperative Agreement among
the City, the CCCPA, the SCPA, the
Treasurer, the Director of Development of the State of Ohio (the
“Director”), The Huntington National Bank as Trustee for the POCBF
and OEBF, U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee for the SCPABF,
the Developer and the Developer
Partner (“TIF Cooperative Agreement”) to provide, among other
things, for (i) all remaining acts to
be taken to accomplish the exemption of the TIF Property from real
property taxation and to provide for
the payment of Service Payments by
the Developer and the Developer
Partner, (ii) the issuance of TIF
Bonds by the Issuers, (iii) estab-

December 2, 2009
lishment of reserve funds as needed
as further security for repayment of
the TIF Bonds, (iv) payment of
expenses
incurred
in
connection
with the Issuance of the TIF Bonds,
(v) the distribution of proceeds of
the TIF Bonds and Other Project
Loans for costs of the Flats Project,
including the Office Improvements
and Public Improvements, (vi) contracts and obligations for the payment of Service Payments to be
applied to the repayment of the TIF
Bonds and Other Project Loans,
(vii) a pledge of the Service Payments as security for repayment of
the TIF Bonds and Other Project
Loans, and (ix) arrangements for
the collection and disbursement of
Service Payments for the purposes
described in the Cooperative Agreement, and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department and promoting the creation of jobs and
employment opportunities, and economic recovery and development,
and approving the TIF Cooperative
Agreement is necessary to eliminate
blighted conditions and prevent the
recurrence of blight by financing
the Flats Project now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Determinations by Council. This Council finds and determines as follows:
(a) Economic Development. Pursuant to the TIF Ordinance, the
financing of the Project will promote the elimination of and prevent
the recurrence of blight and deterioration, promote job creation and
economic recovery in areas particularly affected by employment decline, poverty, and general economic distress, and provide for the redevelopment of the TIF Property consistent with the Plan as defined in
the TIF Ordinance.
(b) Public Purpose. The Office
Improvements and Public Improvements in the Flats East Bank Community Development Plan to be constructed in the Flats Project serve
a proper public municipal purpose.
(c) TIF Cooperative Agreement. It
is necessary, proper and in the best
interest of the City to authorize the
TIF Cooperative Agreement to provide for, among other things, (i) the
issuance of TIF Bonds by the Issuers, (ii) the exemption of the Property from real property taxation;
(iii) the payment of semi-annual service payments in lieu of taxes (the
"Service Payments) by the Developer and the Developer Partner pursuant to the TIF Ordinance, (iv) disbursement of the proceeds of the
TIF Bonds for the Flats Project, (v)
establishment of reserve funds as
further security for repayment of
the TIF Bonds, and (vi) the pledge
and transfer of the Service Payments by the City to pay principal
and interest and other costs relating
to the TIF Bonds and the Other Project Loans.
This Council finds and determines
that the issuance of the TIF Bonds
and the signing and delivery of the
TIF Cooperative Agreement in con-

The City Record
nection with such issuance for the
purpose provided in this Ordinance
serves a proper, public, municipal
purpose.
Section 2. Authorization of TIF
Cooperative Agreement; Additional
Documents. In connection with the
issuance of the TIF Bonds, the
Director of Finance, and the Director of Economic Development are
authorized, in the name and on
behalf of the City and on a date
those officers deem appropriate, to
sign and deliver the TIF Cooperative Agreement, approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, substantially in the form in
File No. 1758-09-A, together with
such changes that are not adverse
to the City as may be approved by
the officers signing the same on
behalf of the City. The determination by those officers that the TIF
Cooperative Agreement is not adverse to the City shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing and
delivery of that TIF Cooperative
Agreement by those officers.
The Mayor, the Director of Economic Development, the Director of
Finance, the Clerk, the Director of
Law and other City officials are
authorized to sign and deliver and
accept delivery of such instruments,
certificates and documents as are
necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions authorized by
this Ordinance and the TIF Cooperative Agreement.
The Mayor, the Director of Economic Development, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law and
other City officials, as appropriate,
are authorized to make the necessary arrangements on behalf of the
City and cooperate with the CCCPA,
the SCPA, and the Treasurer to
accomplish those acts contemplated
in the TIF Cooperative Agreement.
The Clerk of Council or other appropriate official of the City shall furnish a true transcript of proceedings
certified by the Clerk or other official, of all proceedings had with reference to the authorization of the
TIF Cooperative Agreement and the
payment of debt service on the TIF
Bonds.
Section 3. Interpretation. Any provisions of the Codified Ordinances
of the City which are inconsistent
with the provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to the TIF
Bonds or matters authorized herein.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall
be applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, indentures, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City.
Section 4. Validity. It is found and
determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that all applicable provisions of the City's Charter
and the rules of this Council have
been fully complied with and this
Ordinance was passed in conformity
therewith.
Section 5. Severability. Each section of this Ordinance and each subdivision or paragraph of any section

2195

11
is hereby declared to be independent, and the finding or holding of
any section or any subdivision or
paragraph of any section to be
invalid or void shall not be deemed
or held to affect the validity of any
other section, subdivision or paragraph of this ordinance.
Section 6. Compliance with Open
Meeting Law. It is hereby found and
determined that all formal actions
of this Council concerning and relating to the passage of this Ordinance
were taken in an open meeting of
this Council, and that all deliberations of this Council and of any of
its committees that resulted in those
formal actions were in meetings
open to the public, in compliance
with all applicable legal requirements.
Section 7. Sunset of Authorization.
The authority granted by this Ordinance shall expire one year from
the effective date of this Ordinance.
If a preliminary disclosure document with respect to the issuance of
the TIF Bonds is distributed under
the authority of this Ordinance at
any time within the one-year period
following its effective date, then the
authority granted by this Ordinance
shall not expire as to the TIF
Bonds. The Director of Finance
shall notify the Chairman of the
Finance Committee and the Clerk of
this Council of the initiation of the
issuance of the TIF Bonds pursuant
to the authority of this Ordinance.
Section 8. Emergency. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all the members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its adoption and approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1759-09.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing a cooperative agreement with
the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port
Authority, the Summit County Port
Authority, and the Treasurer of the
State of Ohio relating to the financing of recovery zone property.
Whereas, the American Recovery
and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009
(the “Stimulus Act”) provides federal income tax incentives for obligations issued to finance expenditures for the construction, reconstruction, renovation or acquisition
of recovery zone property to be used
in a qualified business in the recovery zone (“Recovery Zone Facility
Bonds”); and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1384-09 passed by the Council of
the City on October 5, 2009 (the
“Recovery Zone Ordinance”), this
Council declared the City a Recovery Zone and allocated its Recovery
Zone Facility Bonds volume cap to
the Flats East Development Project

12
in the City, and designated the
Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County
Port
Authority (the “CCCPA”), the Summit County Port Authority (the
“SCPA”) and the Treasurer of the
State of Ohio (the “Treasurer”) as
eligible issuers of Recovery Zone
Facility Bonds, and
Whereas, the City, the CCCPA
and Flats East Development LLC
(the “Developer”) have entered into
a Project Development Agreement
dated May 22, 2006, as amended (the
“Development Agreement”), which
includes the Flats East Development Project; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ohio Revised Code Chapter 4582, the City
has requested the assistance of the
CCCPA and the SCPA in financing
costs of certain Recovery Zone Property; and
Whereas, the City has further
requested the assistance of the Treasurer in financing costs of certain
Recovery Zone Property, and
Whereas, the City intends to enter
into a Cooperative Agreement (the
“Recovery Zone Cooperative Agreement”) with the CCCPA, the Developer, FED/Main Street LLC, the
SCPA, the Treasurer and the Director of the Department of Development of the State of Ohio (“ODOD”)
to provide for, among other things,
the issuance of Recovery Zone Facility Bonds by the Treasurer, the
CCCPA and the SCPA in an aggregate
amount
not
to
exceed
$24,885,000 to pay costs of the acquisition, construction and installation
of
certain
depreciable
property
which will be used in the active conduct of a Qualified Business within
the Recovery Zone all as described
in the Recovery Zone Cooperative
Agreement
(the
“Recovery
Zone
Property”); and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department and providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that approving the
Recovery Zone Cooperative Agreement is necessary to finance the
Recovery Zone Property and to provide for needed public improvements
and eliminate blighted conditions
and prevent the recurrence of blight;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Determinations by Council. This Council finds and determines as follows:
(a) Economic Development. The
acquisition, construction, reconstruction or renovation of Recovery Zone
Property to be used in the active
conduct of a Qualified Business (as
that term is defined in the Stimulus
Act) under the Development Agreement and the Cooperative Agreement is consistent with the purposes of the Recovery Zone Ordinance
to promote job creation and economic recovery in areas particularly affected by employment decline,
poverty, home foreclosures and general economic distress, and eliminate blighted conditions and prevent
the recurrence of blight in the
Recovery Zone and for the develop-

The City Record
ment of the private improvements
described in the Cooperative Agreement.
(b) Cooperative Agreement. It is
necessary, proper and in the best
interest of the City to authorize the
Recovery Zone Cooperative Agreement to provide for, among other
things, (i) the issuance of Recovery
Zone Bonds by the CCCPA, the Treasurer and the SCPA (collectively the
“Issuers”), which may bear interest
at a fixed or variable rate as determined by the Issuers and consistent
with the Cooperative Agreement, to
pay costs of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction and renovation of Recovery Zone Property,
and (ii) the designation of the
Recovery Zone Bonds as such on
information returns filed with the
Internal Revenue Service, and (iii)
assistance
by
the
City
in
the
issuance
of
the
Recovery
Zone
Bonds as reasonably requested by
the Issuers, including to provide
public notice of and to conduct a
hearing pursuant to the Tax Equity
and
Fiscal
Responsibility
Act
(“TEFRA”), to execute minutes of
such hearing, and to issue a certificate confirming that the City's allocation to the Project will not exceed
its Recovery Zone Facility Bond limitation amount.
(c)
Public
Municipal
Purpose.
This Council finds and determines
that the issuance of the Recovery
Zone Bonds and the signing and
delivery of the Recovery Zone Cooperative Agreement in connection
with such issuance for the purpose
provided in this Ordinance serves a
proper, public, municipal purpose.
Section 2. Authorization of Recovery Zone Cooperative Agreement
and Additional Documents. In connection with the issuance of the
Recovery Zone Bonds, either the
Director of Economic Development
or the Director of Finance is authorized, in the name and on behalf of
the City, to sign and deliver the
Recovery Zone Cooperative Agreement, approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, substantially in the form in File No.
1759-09-A,
together
with
such
changes that are not adverse to the
City as may be approved by the officers signing the same on behalf of
the City. The determination by those
officers that the Recovery Zone
Cooperative Agreement is not adverse to the City shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing and
delivery of that Recovery Zone Cooperative Agreement by those officers.
The Mayor, the Director of Economic Development, the Director of
Finance, the Clerk, the Director of
Law and other City officials are
authorized to sign and deliver and
accept delivery of such instruments, certificates and documents
as are necessary or appropriate
to consummate the transactions
authorized by this Ordinance and
the
Recovery
Zone
Cooperative
Agreement.
The Mayor, the Director of Economic Development, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law and
other City officials, as appropriate,

2196

December 2, 2009
are authorized to make the necessary arrangements on behalf of the
City and cooperate with the Issuers
to establish the date, location, procedure and conditions for the delivery of the Recovery Zone Bonds to
the Original Purchasers and to
take all actions necessary to effect
due signing, authentication and
delivery of the Recovery Zone
Bonds under the terms of this Ordinance and the Recovery Zone Cooperative Agreement. The Clerk of
Council or other appropriate official of the City shall furnish the
Original Purchasers a true transcript of proceedings certified by
the Clerk or other official, of all
proceedings had with reference to
the Recover Zone Ordinance and
the authorization of the Recovery
Zone Cooperative Agreement.
Section 3. Interpretation. Any provisions of the Codified Ordinances
of the City which are inconsistent
with the provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to the Recovery Zone Facility Bonds or matters
authorized herein. Nothing in this
Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be applied in any
manner as would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with
respect to any outstanding bonds,
certificates of indebtedness, other
obligations,
indentures,
or
other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City.
Section 4. Validity. It is found and
determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that all applicable provisions of the City’s Charter
and the rules of this Council have
been fully complied with and this
Ordinance was passed in conformity
therewith.
Section 5. Severability. Each section of this ordinance and each subdivision or paragraph of any section
is hereby declared to be independent, and the finding or holding of
any section or any subdivision or
paragraph of any section to be
invalid or void shall not be deemed
or held to affect the validity of any
other section, subdivision or paragraph of this Ordinance.
Section 6. Compliance with Open
Meeting Law. It is hereby found and
determined that all formal actions
of this Council concerning and relating to the passage of this Ordinance
were taken in an open meeting of
this Council, and that all deliberations of this Council and of any of
its committees that resulted in those
formal actions were in meetings
open to the public, in compliance
with all applicable legal requirements.
Section 7. Emergency. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all the members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its adoption and approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

The City Record

December 2, 2009

13

FIRST READING EMERGENCY ORDINANCES READ IN FULL AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1753-09.
By Council Members Pruitt and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 45 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 45 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 316-09,
passed March 16, 2009 and Ordinance No. 1265-09, passed September 14, 2009, is amended to read as follows:
Section 45. Hourly Rate – Building & Construction Trades Council
Compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by
the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.

Asbestos Worker .........................................................................
Boiler Maker .................................................................................
Bricklayer ......................................................................................
Bricklayer Foreman ...................................................................
Carpenter ........................................................................................
Carpenter Foreman.....................................................................
Carpenter Apprentice.................................................................
Cement Finisher ..........................................................................
Cement Finisher Foreman.......................................................
Electrical Worker .......................................................................
Electrical Worker Foreman ....................................................
Glazier .............................................................................................
Ironworker .....................................................................................
Ironworker Foreman..................................................................
Painter.............................................................................................
Painter – Apprentice .................................................................
Painter Foreman .........................................................................
Pipefitter (Welder) ....................................................................
Pipefitter Foreman .....................................................................
Plasterer .........................................................................................
Plasterer Foreman ......................................................................
Plumber (Welder).......................................................................
Plumber Foreman .......................................................................
Roofer ..............................................................................................
Sheet Metal Worker ...................................................................
Sheet Metal Worker Foreman................................................

Effective
Date
5/1/09
7/1/09
5/1/09
5/1/09
5/1/09
5/1/09
5/1/09
5/1/09
5/1/09
5/1/09
5/1/09
5/1/09
8/1/09
8/1/09
6/1/09
6/1/09
6/1/09
5/1/09
5/1/09
5/1/09
5/1/09
5/1/09
5/1/09
5/1/09
11/1/09
11/1/09

Minimum
$39.16
$43.57
$33.38
$34.63
$33.24
$34.49
$14.45
$33.49
$34.74
$41.03
$42.28
$32.26
$37.25
$38.50
$29.62
$14.46
$30.87
$39.42
$40.67
$32.76
$34.01
$40.42
$41.67
$34.08
$39.35
$40.60

Maximum
$48.95
$54.46
$41.72
$41.72
$41.55
$41.55
$18.06
$41.86
$41.86
$51.29
$51.29
$40.32
$46.56
$46.56
$37.02
$18.06
$37.02
$49.27
$49.27
$40.95
$40.95
$50.53
$50.53
$42.60
$49.19
$49.19

Section 2. That existing Section 45 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No.
316-09, passed March 16, 2008 and Ordinance No. 1265-09, passed September 14, 2009, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter, and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1754-09.
By Council Members Pruitt and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 8 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended, relating
to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 8 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 316-09,
passed March 16, 2009, Ordinance No. 408-09, passed March 30, 2009 and Ordinance No. 778-09, passed June 1, 2009,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 8. International Local 100, AFSCME Ohio Council 8 AFL-CIO. That salaries in the following classifications
shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Accountant
Accountant
Accountant
Accountant
Accountant

I .................................................................................
II ...............................................................................
III..............................................................................
Clerk I.....................................................................
Clerk II...................................................................

2197

Minimum
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00

Maximum
$19.61
$21.52
$23.86
$15.90
$17.17

14
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.

The City Record
Activities Therapist ...................................................................
AIDS Support Services Coordinator .....................................
Air Pollution Control Engineer I .........................................
Air Pollution Control Engineer II .......................................
Air Pollution Control Engineer III .....................................
Air Pollution Engineer .............................................................
Air Pollution Inspector I .........................................................
Air Pollution Inspector II .......................................................
Air Pollution Technician I......................................................
Air Pollution Technician II ....................................................
Air Pollution Technician III ..................................................
Airport Information Representative ....................................
Airport Operations Agent I.....................................................
Airport Operations Agent II...................................................
Airport Safety Man ....................................................................
Architect .........................................................................................
Associate Engineer.....................................................................
Assistant Buyer ...........................................................................
Assistant City Planner .............................................................
Assistant Civil Engineer..........................................................
Assistant Electrical Engineer................................................
Assistant Mechanical Engineer .............................................
Assistant Residential Plan Examiner ................................
Associate Programmer ..............................................................
Bacteriologist................................................................................
Bill Collector.................................................................................
Billing Clerk .................................................................................
Building Inspector ......................................................................
Building Inspector I ..................................................................
Building Inspector II ................................................................
Building Inspector III...............................................................
Building Inspector IV ...............................................................
Business Certification Officer ................................................
Camera Room Operator ............................................................
Caseworker I ................................................................................
Caseworker II ..............................................................................
Cashier/Starter .............................................................................
Chemist ...........................................................................................
Chief Miscellaneous Investigator..........................................
Citizens Information Representative...................................
Civil Engineer ..............................................................................
Claims Examiner.........................................................................
Clerk Typist..................................................................................
Clinical Laboratory Assistant ................................................
Clinical Laboratory Technician I .........................................
Clinical Laboratory Technician II .......................................
Cocaine Treatment Counselor I ............................................
Cocaine Intake Specialist ........................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspector/Refrigeration I.....................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspector/Refrigeration II ...................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspector/Refrigeration III .................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspector/Trainee....................................................................
Community Development Planner ........................................
Community Health Aide...........................................................
Community Relations Representative I .............................
Community Relations Representative II ...........................
Community Relations Representative III..........................
Composing Equipment Operator............................................
Computer Monitor Assistant ...................................................
Computer Operator......................................................................
Construction Technician...........................................................
Consumer Protection Specialist .............................................
Contract and Monitoring Specialist .....................................
Cook .................................................................................................
Copy Center Operator................................................................
Cost Construction Estimator...................................................
Customer Service Representative .........................................

2198

December 2, 2009
$10.00
$10.49
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$12.04
$12.12
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.02
$14.14
$17.77
$14.19
$10.00
$17.83
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$13.42
$10.00
$10.00
$10.02
$10.00
$14.26
$14.08
$14.89
$15.70
$26.35
$11.15
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00

$15.11
$16.89
$25.23
$26.59
$28.02
$19.70
$20.29
$22.64
$21.52
$22.64
$25.23
$16.48
$20.37
$23.98
$23.93
$29.66
$27.74
$20.59
$21.52
$21.52
$21.52
$21.52
$22.64
$23.05
$23.86
$16.48
$16.47
$21.88
$23.88
$25.23
$26.59
$27.97
$33.01
$18.73
$17.89
$19.61
$19.62
$26.07
$22.64
$18.73
$29.66
$22.64
$12.29
$18.73
$21.52
$23.05
$17.82
$16.03

$14.05

$23.88

$14.89

$25.23

$15.70

$26.59

$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$12.02
$10.00
$10.00
$11.38
$10.00
$10.00
$10.03

$19.74
$28.54
$15.89
$18.73
$22.64
$28.02
$20.59
$13.61
$22.64
$22.64
$17.89
$23.95
$15.48
$18.19
$22.04
$17.16

December 2, 2009
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135.
136.
137.
138.
139.
140.
141.
142.
143.

The City Record

Data Control Clerk.....................................................................
Data Conversion Operator .......................................................
Dental Assistant ..........................................................................
Development Officer ..................................................................
Dietician .........................................................................................
Disease Surveillance Specialist .............................................
Drug and Alcohol Counselor ..................................................
Electrical Engineer ....................................................................
Electronic Engineer ...................................................................
Elevator Inspector ......................................................................
Engineer .........................................................................................
Environmental Compliance Specialist I .............................
Environmental Compliance Specialist II ...........................
Environmental Compliance Specialist III .........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist I...........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist II.........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist III .......................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist I ..............................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist II ............................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist III...........................
Environmental Technician ......................................................
Family Planning Clerk.............................................................
Financial Analyst .......................................................................
Financial Counselor ...................................................................
First Press Operator ..................................................................
Fuel System Technician...........................................................
General Health Aide..................................................................
General Storekeeper ...................................................................
Geriatric Outreach Worker .....................................................
Hardware Analyst ......................................................................
Hazardous Material Specialist ...............................................
Head Cook .....................................................................................
Head Storekeeper ........................................................................
Health Educator I ......................................................................
Health Educator II ....................................................................
Heating Inspector .......................................................................
Help Desk Analyst.....................................................................
HIV Educator ...............................................................................
Home Maintenance Aide ..........................................................
House Connection Inspector ...................................................
Residential Building Inspector ..............................................
Human Resources Contract Specialist ................................
Human Resources On-the-Job Training Specialist .........
Human Resources Planner ......................................................
Human Resources Special Projects Coordinator.............
Income Tax Tracer ....................................................................
Industrial Hygiene Engineer .................................................
Industrial Nuisance Inspector ................................................
Information Control Analyst ..................................................
Inspector of Weight and Measures .....................................
Instrumentation Technician I ................................................
Instrumentation Technician II ..............................................
Instrument Repairman ..............................................................
Intake Specialist .........................................................................
Interim Building Inspector .....................................................
Interim Residential Building Inspector .............................
Interim Residential Plan Examiner ....................................
Job Retraining Assistant .........................................................
Junior Cashier..............................................................................
Junior Chemist .............................................................................
Junior City Planner ...................................................................
Junior Civil Engineer ...............................................................
Junior Clerk ..................................................................................
Junior Draftsman........................................................................
Junior Engineering Aide .........................................................
Lab Coordinator...........................................................................
Laboratory Assistant .................................................................
Laboratory Helper ......................................................................
Landscape Architect...................................................................
Lead Pressman.............................................................................
Life Guard .....................................................................................

2199

15
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$14.42
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$14.23
$22.78
$14.95
$16.35
$17.90
$14.95
$16.35
$17.90
$13.33
$14.18
$15.74
$12.35
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$12.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$14.48
$21.63
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$14.23
$12.02
$10.00
$10.00
$12.70
$14.60
$10.00
$10.21
$10.74
$10.21
$10.04
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$16.87
$18.83
$10.00
$10.00
$19.00
$15.75
$20.25
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$16.82
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00

$16.49
$14.94
$15.58
$26.58
$19.61
$31.54
$14.58
$29.66
$30.20
$24.00
$33.78
$22.55
$23.62
$30.39
$23.48
$24.60
$25.80
$23.28
$24.37
$25.53
$17.91
$13.74
$21.52
$22.64
$21.60
$19.99
$15.90
$24.24
$21.52
$49.45
$31.70
$17.14
$22.39
$19.62
$21.52
$21.88
$24.59
$12.53
$15.89
$18.29
$20.46
$29.65
$25.21
$31.32
$25.21
$17.34
$29.65
$19.62
$20.53
$17.38
$21.07
$23.22
$20.75
$15.90
$19.77
$16.39
$21.07
$21.52
$16.48
$17.17
$19.62
$19.62
$13.73
$16.84
$17.17
$26.10
$18.73
$14.80
$28.02
$21.83
$15.69

16
144.
145.
146.
147.
148.
149.
150.
151.
152.
153.
154.
155.
156.
157.
158.
159.
160.
161.
162.
163.
164.
165.
166.
167.
168.
169.
170.
171.
172.
173.
174.
175.
176.
177.
178.
179.
180.
181.
182.
183.
184.
185.
186.
187.
188.
189.
190.
191.
192.
193.
194.
195.
196.
197.
198.
199.
200.
201.
202.
203.
204.
205.
206.
207.
208.
209.
210.
211.

The City Record
Life Guard Captain ....................................................................
Mechanical Engineer .................................................................
Mechanical Inspector I .............................................................
Mechanical Inspector II ...........................................................
Mechanical Inspector III..........................................................
Messenger.......................................................................................
Meter Reader ................................................................................
Miscellaneous Investigator ......................................................
Monitoring, Auditing and Evaluation
Coordinator ................................................................................
Network Analyst I......................................................................
Office Machine Operator ..........................................................
On The Job Training Specialist ...........................................
Park and Recreation Planner ................................................
Parking Attendant......................................................................
Parking Meter Collector...........................................................
Parking Meter Serviceman......................................................
Permit Processing Specialist ..................................................
Pharmacist .....................................................................................
Pharmacodependent Rehabilitation
Counselor I ................................................................................
Pharmacodependent Rehabilitation
Counselor II ..............................................................................
Photographer ................................................................................
Photographic Laboratory Technician..................................
Photo-Litho Operator..................................................................
Physical Director I.....................................................................
Physical Director II...................................................................
Residential Plan Examiner.....................................................
Play Director ................................................................................
Police Data Specialist ...............................................................
Police Radio Technician ..........................................................
Pressman ........................................................................................
Preventive Health Counselor..................................................
Preventive Health Educator ...................................................
Principal Cashier ........................................................................
Principal Clerk ............................................................................
Print Shop Helper.......................................................................
Private Secretary ........................................................................
Program Analyst .........................................................................
Programmer...................................................................................
Programmer Analyst..................................................................
Property Clerk .............................................................................
Psychiatric Social Worker.......................................................
Psychologist I ..............................................................................
Psychologist II.............................................................................
Public Health Nursing Aide ...................................................
Public Health Sanitarian I .....................................................
Public Health Sanitarian II....................................................
Public Health Sanitarian III..................................................
Public Health Sanitarian IV ..................................................
Public Information Officer ......................................................
Quality Assurance Analyst .....................................................
Quality Control Coordinator ...................................................
Radio Dispatcher.........................................................................
Radio Technician ........................................................................
Receptionist ...................................................................................
Records Manager ........................................................................
Recreation Aide ...........................................................................
Recreation Instructor ................................................................
Recreation Instructor I.............................................................
Recreation Instructor II ...........................................................
Recreation Instructor III .........................................................
Recreation Program Supervisor ............................................
Redevelopment Advisor ............................................................
Redevelopment Coordinator ....................................................
Refrigeration Inspector ............................................................
Refugee Outreach Worker.......................................................
Registered Animal Health Technician ...............................
Rehabilitation Advisor ..............................................................
Rehabilitation Inspector ...........................................................

2200

December 2, 2009
$10.00
$10.00
$14.08
$14.89
$15.70
$10.00
$12.82
$10.00

$19.43
$29.65
$23.88
$25.23
$26.59
$14.80
$18.71
$18.08

$13.65
$14.52
$10.00
$12.71
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$13.62
$10.00
$10.74

$21.85
$34.25
$14.39
$21.11
$28.02
$15.90
$15.87
$16.69
$13.32
$31.31

$10.00

$15.20

$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$16.38
$10.00
$13.59
$10.00
$10.00
$11.93
$10.61
$10.00
$16.64
$10.00
$10.00
$11.37
$12.48
$10.74
$12.88
$10.63
$12.78
$14.35
$15.49
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$16.82
$17.33
$16.38
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$14.26
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$14.60

$17.95
$21.52
$18.73
$17.17
$19.35
$20.88
$25.59
$13.57
$17.90
$20.38
$21.12
$21.89
$14.71
$23.05
$19.51
$14.52
$20.59
$29.84
$26.59
$29.84
$33.04
$21.46
$28.55
$33.65
$13.71
$21.25
$22.91
$24.05
$29.55
$22.64
$26.58
$26.11
$20.38
$20.38
$15.16
$15.89
$10.93
$15.90
$16.94
$17.58
$18.60
$17.30
$23.87
$26.59
$21.88
$14.79
$15.90
$20.59
$26.57

December 2, 2009
212.
213.
214.
215.
216.
217.
218.
219.
220.
221.
222.
223.
224.
225.
226.
227.
228.
229.
230.
231.
232.
233.
234.
235.
236.
237.
238.
239.
240.
241.
242.
243.
244.
245.
246.
247.
248.
249.
250.
251.
252.
253.
254.
255.
256.
257.
258.
259.
260.
261.
262.
263.
264.
265.
266.
267.
268.
269.
270.

The City Record

Sanitarian Aide ............................................................................
Second Press Operator ..............................................................
Secretary.........................................................................................
Secretary to Director of Consumer Affairs ......................
Senior Assistant Architect.......................................................
Senior Assistant City Planner ...............................................
Senior Assistant Civil Engineer ...........................................
Senior Assistant Electrical Engineer..................................
Senior Assistant Mechanical Engineer...............................
Senior Assistant Traffic Engineer .......................................
Senior Bacteriologist..................................................................
Senior Cashier ..............................................................................
Senior Chemist .............................................................................
Senior Clerk ..................................................................................
Senior Computer Operator .......................................................
Senior Contract and Monitoring Specialist .......................
Senior Data Conversion Operator .........................................
Senior Development Officer ....................................................
Senior Draftsman ........................................................................
Senior Engineering Draftsman and
Photographer ............................................................................
Senior Information Control Analyst ....................................
Senior Laboratory Technician................................................
Senior Landscape Architect ....................................................
Senior Site Inspector – Demolition ......................................
Sewer Service Man .....................................................................
Site Inspector................................................................................
Social Worker for Homeless ..................................................
Starter (Golf) ...............................................................................
S.T.D. Clerk ...................................................................................
Stenographer I .............................................................................
Stenographer II............................................................................
Stenographer III..........................................................................
Stock Clerk....................................................................................
Storekeeper ....................................................................................
Street Obstruction Inspector ...................................................
Surveyor..........................................................................................
Tax Auditor I...............................................................................
Tax Auditor II .............................................................................
Technical Specialist ...................................................................
Technical Specifications Writer ............................................
Telecommunications Analyst I ..............................................
Telephone Operator ....................................................................
Telephone Supervisor ................................................................
Timekeeper ....................................................................................
Traffic Engineer .........................................................................
Traffic Sign and Marking Technician ...............................
Trainee Building Inspector .....................................................
Trainee Residential Plan Examiner ...................................
Typist ..............................................................................................
Urban Planning and Development Technician ...............
Utility Adjuster............................................................................
Vector Control Assistant ..........................................................
Veteran’s Counselor ...................................................................
Water Hydraulic Repairman ..................................................
Water Meter Repairman ..........................................................
Water Pipe Repairman .............................................................
Water Serviceman.......................................................................
Water System Construction Inspector ................................
Web Content Editor ...................................................................

17
$11.62
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.29
$10.00
$11.34
$10.80
$12.63
$10.00

$15.42
$19.32
$17.17
$28.02
$23.87
$23.87
$23.87
$23.87
$23.87
$23.87
$20.59
$19.61
$22.64
$16.10
$26.59
$28.18
$17.90
$34.88
$19.24

$10.00
$10.00
$10.86
$10.00
$10.00
$14.99
$10.00
$13.82
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.77
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.60
$12.41
$10.00
$10.00
$14.53
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$13.68
$18.60
$18.25
$10.00
$10.00
$10.64
$10.00
$10.00
$14.99
$14.99
$13.58
$10.00
$15.67
$10.00

$21.52
$22.64
$17.51
$29.65
$25.21
$18.71
$22.64
$22.27
$13.16
$12.71
$14.42
$16.10
$17.89
$17.70
$20.16
$18.73
$26.59
$18.20
$20.13
$22.64
$23.88
$41.21
$16.48
$17.17
$17.17
$28.02
$17.17
$19.74
$20.51
$14.94
$14.95
$16.10
$14.33
$19.49
$18.71
$18.71
$20.51
$15.98
$23.38
$28.90

Section 2. That existing Section 8 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No.
316-09, passed March 16, 2009, Ordinance No. 408-09, passed March 30, 2009 and Ordinance No. 778-09, passed June
1, 2009, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter, and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

2201

18
Ord. No. 1760-09.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into
an agreement with Guy Gadomski,
CPA to provide professional financial
consulting and auditing services for
Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Guy Gadomski, CPA
to provide professional financial consulting and auditing services for
Cleveland City Council, including,
but not limited to, assistance with
analysis of initiatives to fill the budget gap in the years 2010 and 2011,
analysis of the Mayor’s Estimate,
preparation and presentation of the
Council budget retreat, monthly budget reviews, analyses and briefings
to the Council President, and any
other financial advisory services
as directed by the Clerk or her
designee. This agreement shall be
entered into as of January 1, 2010
and shall be for a term of one year.
The agreement shall be certified for
$50,000 from fund numbers 632000-01010100.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1761-09.
By Council Member Cloud.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance of a Temporary Sidewalk Occupancy Permit to Nikolaos
Likos to engage in peddling in Ward
8 at East 105th Street and Chester
Avenue.
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council
expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to peddling upon public rights
of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the request of Nikolaos Likos
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow Nikolaos Likos to
peddle in Ward 8; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by, Section 675.07

The City Record
of the Codified Ordinances to allow
Nikolaos Likos to engage in mobile
peddling in the public rights of way
of Ward 8 at East 105th Street and
Chester Avenue.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 3. That the privilege granted may be revoked at any time by
this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1762-09.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the City Planning
Commission to enter into agreement
with The Flats Oxbow Association for
the Flats Oxbow Strategies Long
Range Development Plan through the
use of Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission is authorized to enter into agreement with
The Flats Oxbow Association for the
Flats Oxbow Strategies Long Range
Development Plan for the public
purpose of promoting commercial
retail and residential development
in the city of Cleveland through the
use of Ward 14 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $30,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

2202

December 2, 2009
Ord. No. 1763-09.
By Council Member Wilkes.
An emergency ordinance amending
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1564-09
passed October 26, 2009, which amended Ordinance No. 1448-09 passed October 5, 2009 as it pertains to the Miles
Crossing Point Retail Center Project
through the use of Ward 2 Neighborhood Capital Funds and Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance Number 1564-09 passed October 26, 2009, which amended Ordinance No. 1448-09 passed October 5,
2009 is hereby amended to read as
follow:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $150,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 177, and Fund
No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance Number 1564-09 passed October 26, 2009, which amended Ordinance No. 1448-09 passed October 5,
2009 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1764-09.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
4126 Pearl Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Rahil, Inc., DBA
Gas USA, 4126 Pearl Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent Number 7171122; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and

December 2, 2009
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Rahil, Inc., DBA
Gas USA, 4126 Pearl Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent Number
7171122; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final Adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
21. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1765-09.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit at 8800 Woodland Avenue, lower level, and repealing Resolution No. 956-09 objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D5 Liquor Permit to 8800 Woodland Avenue by Resolution No. 95609 adopted by the Council on July 1,
2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
Liquor
Permit
to
Club
Center
Lounge, Inc., DBA Club Center
Lounge, 8800 Woodland Avenue,
lower level, Cleveland, Ohio 44104,
Permanent Number 1572186 be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 956-09, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents
to
the
immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final Adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
21. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1766-09.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit at 11132 Buckeye Road, and
repealing Resolution No. 1136-09 objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 11132 Buckeye Road by
Resolution No. 1136-09 adopted by
the Council on August 5, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to
Phase
III
Corporation,
DBA
Phase III, 11132 Buckeye Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 6877045 be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1136-09, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final Adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
21. Nays 0.

2203

19
Res. No. 1767-09.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D2 and D2X Liquor Permit at 9203
Kinsman Avenue, and repealing
Resolution No. 1139-09 objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D2 and D2X Liquor Permit to 9203
Kinsman Avenue by Resolution No.
1139-09 adopted by the Council on
August 5, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D2
and D2X Liquor Permit to Ossie,
Inc., DBA Kinsman’s Shell, 9203
Kinsman Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent Number 6591675 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1139-09, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final Adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
21. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1768-09.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 3837 Ridge
Road and repealing Resolution No.
1395-09, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of liquor license of a
D2, D2X, D3 and D6 Liquor Permit
to Ridge Road Castle, #3837, Inc.,
3837 Ridge Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44144, Permanent No. 7366153, by
Resolution No. 1395-09 adopted by
the Council on September 21, 2009;
and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D2,
D2X, D3 and D6 Liquor Permit to
Ridge Road Castle, #3837, 3837
Ridge Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44144,
Permanent Number 7366153 be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and

20
Resolution No. 1395-09, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final Adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
21. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1769-09.
By Council Member Wilkes.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit at
11609 Miles Avenue, and repealing
Resolution No. 1153-09, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit to
11609 Miles Avenue by Resolution
No. 1153-09 adopted by the Council
on August 5, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2,
C2X and D6 Liquor Permit to
Habibi, Inc., DBA Frank’s Marathon,
11609 Miles Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permanent Number 3479133 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1153-09, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final Adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
21. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1260-08.
By Council Members Santiago,
Westbrook, Zone, Brancatelli and
Cummins.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 187.01 and 187.22, of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 77-08, passed February 4, 2008,

The City Record
Sections 313.06, 323.06, 663.01, 663.02,
687.05, and 691.16, as amended by
Ordinance No. 77-94, passed March
14, 1994, Section 665.01 as amended
by Ordinance No. 162-A-2000, passed
December 4, 2000, Section 665.02, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1081-01,
passed June 19, 2001, Section 665.03,
as amended by Ordinance No. 231704, passed December 13, 2004, Section
667.05, as amended by Ordinance No.
128-97, passed January 27, 1997,
relating to discrimination on the
basis of gender identity.
Approved by Directors of the Office of Equal Opportunity, Personnel
and Human Resources, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on Employment, Affirmative Action and Training; Passage recommended by Committees
on
Legislation,
Finance,
when amended as follows:
1. Strike the title in its entirety
and insert: “An emergency ordinance to amend Sections 187.01,
187.22, 313.06, 323.06, 663.01, 663.02,
663.04, 665.01, 665.02, 665.03, 667.01,
667.05, 687.05, and 691.16 as amended
by various ordinances, relating to
discrimination on the basis of gender identity or expression.”.
2. In Section 1, line 7, strike “and”;
and in line 8, after “January 27,
1997,” insert “, Section 663.04, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 1333-64,
passed May 17, 1965, and Section
667.01, as enacted by Ordinance No.
162-A-00, passed December 4, 2000,”.
3. In Section 1, at division (r) of
Section 187.01, line 2, strike “gender
identity” and insert “gender identity
or expression” and strike division
(x) in its entirety and insert “(x)
“Gender identity or expression” means
the gender-related identity, external
presentation of gender identity through
appearance, or mannerism or other
gender-related characteristics of an
individual, regardless of the individual’s designated sex at birth.”.
4. In Section 1, at division (b)(1)
of Section 187.22, line 2, strike “gender identity” and insert “gender
identity or expression”; and in line
6, strike “gender identity” and insert
“gender identity or expression”.
5. In Section 1, at amended Section
313.06, line 7, strike “gender identity” and insert “gender identity or
expression”; and in lines 15 and 16,
strike “gender identity” and insert
“gender identity or expression”.
6. In Section 1, at amended Section
323.06, line 7, strike “gender identity” and insert “gender identity or
expression”.
7. In Section 1, at division (a) of
Section 663.01, line 2, strike “gender
identity” and insert “gender identity
or expression”; and in division (g),
line 1, strike “Gender Identity”
means the gender-related identity,”
and
insert
“Gender
Identity
or
Expression” means the gender-related identity, external presentation of
gender identity through”.
8. In Section 1, at division (a) of
Section 663.02, line 3, strike “gender
identity” and insert “gender identity
or expression”; in division (b), line
3, strike “gender identity” and insert
“gender identity or expression”; and
in division (c), line 3, “gender identity” and insert “gender identity or
expression”.
9. In Section 1, on page 7, following Section 663.02, insert the following:

2204

December 2, 2009
“Section 663.0
Exemptions from
Provisions
Exemptions from the requirements
of this chapter shall be:
(a) Any employer of less than
four persons; nor shall members of
the immediate family of an employer be included in determining the
number of employees.
(b) Any religious organization or
institute whose membership or service is limited to persons of a single religious faith.
(c) Any institution organized for
educational purposes that is operated, supervised, or controlled by such
a religious association, corporation,
or society.
(d) Any private organization having a purely social or fraternal purpose.
(e)
Any
type
of
employment
where religion, religious creed or
nationality would usually and normally be considered an essential
qualification of employment.
(f) Nothing in this section shall
be construed to establish an unlawful employment practice based on
actual or perceived gender identity
or expression due to the denial of
access to bathrooms, showers, locker rooms or dressing facilities, provided that the employer provides
reasonable access to adequate facilities that are not inconsistent with
an employee’s gender identity or
expression as established with the
employer at the time of initial
employment or upon notification to
the employer that the employee has
undergone or is undergoing gender
transition, whichever is later.
(g) Nothing in this section shall
be construed to require the modification of existing facilities or the
construction of new or additional
facilities.”.
10. In Section 1, at amended Section 665.01, line 6, strike “gender
identity” and insert “gender identity
or expression”.
11. In Section 1, at amended Section 665.02, line 2, strike “As used
herein” and insert “As used in this
chapter:”; at division (c)(1)B. at the
end, strike “or”; at division (c)(1)C.
at the end, strike the period and add
“;or”; and add new division (c)(1)D.
to read as follows: “D. any person
associated with that person, and any
person residing or intending to
reside with that person.”; at division
(e), line 2, strike “hereon”; at division (f)(1)A., strike “of such” and
insert “of the”; at division (f)(1)B.,
line 1, strike “designee of such parent” and insert “designee of the parent”; and in line 2, strike “such parent” and insert “the parent”; strike
division (g) in its entirety and
insert “(g) “Gender identity or
expression” means the gender-related
identity, external presentation of gender identity through appearance, or
mannerism or other gender-related
characteristics
of
an
individual,
regardless of the individual’s designated sex at birth.”; at division (h),
line 1, after “persons” means insert
a colon; at division (h)(3), line 3,
strike “subsection” and insert “division”; in line 4, strike “providing”
and insert “which require that”; in
division (h)(3)A. lines 2 and 3,
strike “such” in both places and
insert “the” in both places; in division (h)(4)A., line 1, strike “such”

December 2, 2009
and insert “the”; in line 2, strike
“subsection (i)(2) or (3)” and insert
“division (i)(2) or (3) of this section”; in line 3, strike “such” and
insert “the”; in line 4, strike “subsection (i)(2) or (3);” and insert
“division (i)(2) or (3); or”; in division (h)(4)B., line 2, strike “subsection” and insert “division”; in division (k), line 1, strike “herein” and
insert “in this chapter”; in division
(k)(1), line 4, strike “pursuant to”
and insert “with”, and in line 5,
strike “such” and insert “the”; and in
division (l), line 3, strike “gender
identity” and insert “gender identity
or expression”.
12. In Section 1, at amended Section 665.03, at division (c), line 4,
strike “gender identity” and insert
“gender identity or expression”; in
division (c)(3)A., line 2, strike
any
“therein”
and
insert
“in
dwelling”; in division (c)(3)B., line
4, strike “therein” and insert “in any
dwelling”; in division (f), line 2,
strike “thereof” and insert “because
of their membership in a protected
class”; in division (h), line 3, strike
“such”; in division (i), strike lines 1
and 2 in their entirety and insert
“(i) for the purposes of profit,
whether or not realized, induce or
solicit or attempt to induce or solicit, a property listing or transaction
including but not limited to a sale,
rental or other transaction by representing
that
a
change
has
occurred or may”; in division (m),
line 2, strike “such modifications”
and insert “the modifications”; in
division (n), line 2, strike “such”
and insert “the”; in division (o), line
2, strike the section sign before
“3604(f)(3)(C)” and insert “Section”;
in division (p), line 4, at the end,
after “Code;” insert “or”; and in division (q), line 3, strike the section
sign before “3601” and insert “Section”; and in line 4, strike “pursuant
thereto” and insert “under those sections”.
13. In Section 1, on page 13, before
the amendment to Section 667.05,
insert the following:
“Section 667.01
Unlawful Discriminatory Public Accommodations Practices
It shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice in a place of public
accommodation for any person who
is the owner, operator, lessee, manager, administrator, servant, agent
or employee of any place of public
accommodation:
(a) To refuse, deny, segregate,
discriminate or make a distinction,
directly or indirectly, in offering its
goods, services, facilities or accommodations to any person because of
membership in a protected class;
(b) To refuse, deny, segregate,
separate, discriminate, or make a
distinction, directly or indirectly in
any way, against any person in the
full and equal use and enjoyment of
the services, facilities, privileges,
advantages or enforcement powers
of the City, or any unit or office
thereof, because of membership in a
protected class;
(c) For any person, whether or
not specifically prohibited from discriminating under any provisions of
this section, to aid, abet, incite, compel, or coerce the doing of any act
declared to be an unlawful discrim-

The City Record
inatory practice by this section, or
to attempt to do so;
(d) To coerce, intimidate, threaten, retaliate against, or otherwise
interfere with any person, or attempt to do so, because he or she
has promoted the provisions of this
section, or because he or she has
filed a complaint, testified, or assisted in any proceeding, investigation
or hearing authorized by Sections
667.011 through 667.013 or by appropriate state or federal law;
(e) Nothing in this section shall
prohibit a religious or denominational institution, organization, society or association or any nonprofit
charitable or educational organization that is operated, supervised or
controlled by or in connection with
a religious organization, from limiting its offerings of goods, services,
facilities and accommodations to
persons of the same religion, or
from giving preference to such persons, provided that such offerings
mentioned above are not, in fact,
offered for commercial purposes;
(f) Nothing in this section shall
prohibit the establishment of programs or other public accommodations designed and operated for a
particular age group. However, such
public accommodations shall not discriminate on the basis of membership in a protected class.
(g) Nothing in this section shall
be construed to establish unlawful
discrimination based on actual or
perceived gender identity or expression due to the denial of access to
bathrooms, showers, locker rooms or
dressing facilities, provided reasonable access to adequate facilities is
available.
(h) Nothing in this section shall
be construed to require the modification of existing facilities or the
construction of new or additional
facilities.”.
14. In Section 1, at division (a) of
Section 667.05, line 2, strike “gender
identity” and insert “gender identity
or expression”; at division (b), line
2, strike “gender identity” and insert
“gender identity or expression”; and
at division (e), line 4, strike “State”
and insert “States”.
15. In Section 1, at division (b) of
Section 687.05, line 5, strike “gender
identity” and insert “gender identity
or expression”.
16. In Section 1, at Section 691.16,
line 6, strike “gender identity” and
insert “gender identity or expression”.
17. In Section 2, line 7, strike
“and”; and in line 8, after “January
27, 1997,” insert “, Section 663.04, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 1333-64,
passed May 17, 1965, and Section
667.01, as enacted by Ordinance No.
162-A-00, passed December 4, 2000,”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 790-09.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
exercise options to renew contracts

2205

21
with various vendors for the towing
and salvaging of motor vehicles,
and to authorize the Director of
Public Safety to enter into contract
with an additional vendor for the
towing of motor vehicles.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance, when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, line 3, strike “exercise options to renew” and insert
“enter into”.
2. In the title, strike lines 5, 6 and
7 in their entirety and insert “vehicles, for a period of one year.”.
3.
Strike
the
second
whereas
clause in its entirety.
4. In Section 1, strike lines 1 and
2 in their entirety and insert, “That
the Director of Public Safety is
authorized to enter into contract
with each of the following towing
and salvage vendors on the same
terms and conditions as the prior
contracts for these services, each of
which is identified by contract number in the column to the left of the
vendor’s name, for a period of one
year:”; and strike the last two lines
of Section 1 in their entirety.
5. In Section 2, strike lines 2
through and 6 in their entirety and
insert, “contract for the towing of
non-commercial vehicles with K & M
Towing and Automotive, Inc. on the
same terms and conditions as the
contracts authorized in Section 1 of
this ordinance, for a period of one
year.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1510-09.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into an agreement with the
United States of America, by and
through its agency, the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration at the Glenn Research Center
and the Cleveland Fire Department
to collaborate in the design, development, and testing of a robotics
platform and communications testbed in a realistic HAZMAT environment.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1587-09.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating the exterior terminal building
facade at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport; authorizing the
Director of Port Control to enter into
one or more public improvement con-

22
tracts
for
the
making
of
the
improvement; authorizing the Director to employ one or more professional consultants to design the
improvement; and to enter into various written standard purchase and
requirement contracts needed in connection with the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committee on City Planning; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1588-09.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of rehabilitating the terminal ticketing lobby at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport; authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more public improvement contracts for the making
of the improvement; authorizing the
Director to employ one or more professional consultants to design the
improvement; and to enter into various written standard purchase and
requirement contracts needed in connection with the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committee on City Planning; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1589-09.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise a first option to renew Contract No. 67632 with KS Associates,
Inc. to provide professional survey
services.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1590-09.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of diesel emission reduction systems for vehicles
and equipment, including installation, for the Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control, for a period of two years, with two one-year
options to renew, the first of which
is exercisable through additional
legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

The City Record
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1592-09.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to apply for
and accept a grant from the Ohio
Department of Education for the
After School Snack Program; authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
snacks and beverages, for the Division of Recreation, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties;
and authorizing the Director to
enter into one or more contracts
with various agencies, entities, or
individuals to implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Properties
and Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1609-09.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating Taxiway L at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport; authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvement; authorizing
the Director to employ one or more
professional consultants to design
the improvement; and to enter into
various written standard purchase
and requirement contracts needed in
connection with the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committee on City Planning; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1658-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to
employ one or more professional
consultants to assess City fees
charged for City services.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1659-09.
By Council Members Dow and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
various sections of Chapter 557, as
enacted and amended by various
ordinances, relating to cemeteries;
and to repeal Section 557.99, as
amended by Ordinance No. 63410-A,
passed September 22, 1924, relating
to penalties.

2206

December 2, 2009
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Legislation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1709-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more requirement contracts without competitive bidding
with Sprint Nextel Corporation for
personal handheld devices with cellular capabilities, cellular devices with
direct connect capabilities, pager
equipment, and accessories, wireless
connection cards, software, licenses,
upgrades with software and licenses, maintenance, including replacements, and monthly recurring service, for the Division of Information
Technology and Services, Department of Finance, for a period not
to exceed two options to renew for
additional one year periods, exercisable by the Director of Finance.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance, when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, strike lines 14, 15,
and 16 in their entirety and insert
“exceed one year, with two one-year
options to renew, the first of which
is exercised through additional legislative authority.”.
2. In Section 1, strike lines 6 and
7 in their entirety and insert “exceed
one year with two one-year options
to renew, of the necessary items of
personal handheld devices with”;
and at the end of Section 1, insert
“The first of the one-year options to
renew may not be exercised without
additional legislative authority. If
such additional legislative authority
is granted and the first of the oneyear options to renew is exercised,
then the second of the one-year
options to renew may be exercisable
at the option of the Director of
Finance, without the necessity of
obtaining additional authority of
this Council.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1717-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing supplemental lease-purchase
agreements, hedge agreements and
other agreements relating to the
lease-purchase of the Cleveland Stadium; approving supplemental trust
agreements and the issuance of
refunding certificates of participation; and authorizing and approving
related matters.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

December 2, 2009
Ord. No. 1718-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of revenue refunding bonds to refund outstanding revenue bonds of the core
city program for economic and community development in the City and
authorizing related matters.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1720-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to provide the transfer of Three Million
Twenty Four Thousand Two Hundred Dollars ($3,024,200) within various divisions of the General Fund;
Five Hundred Thousand ($500,000)
within the Special Revenue Fund;
Forty Five Thousand Dollars ($45,000)
within the Enterprise Fund.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1722-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make
temporary appropriations for the current payrolls and other ordinary
expenses of the City of Cleveland
from the period from January 1, 2010
until the effective date of the annual appropriation ordinance for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1723-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make
additional appropriations of Eight
Hundred Thousand ($800,000) of
Convention Center Funds.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1748-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more contracts with
Mary Taylor, Ohio State Auditor, for
professional services necessary to
perform
an
assessment
and
to
express the opinion of the City
regarding the 2009 financial statements, and to complete two statements of Auditing Standards for the
Divisions of Water and Taxation;
and authorizing the Director of
Finance to employ one or more professional
consultants
to
prepare
financial statements and to provide
accounting and auditing training.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 1672-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution requesting the County Auditor to make
advances during the year 2010 under
Section 321.34 of the Revised Code.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Adoption recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
LAID ON THE TABLE
Ord. No. 310-96.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance rescinding the designation of the AfroAmerican Cultural & Historical Society Museum as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 1446-96.
By Council Member Lewis (by
request).
An emergency ordinance rescinding the designation of the Newton
Avenue Historic Landmark district
as an historic landmark district
within the City Historical Landmark.
Ord. No. 1083-01.
By Councilman Rybka
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area, and Height Districts of land
on the east side of East 55 Street
between Broadway and Lufkin Avenue. (Map Change No. 2033, Sheet
Nos. 5 & 6)
Ord. No. 1136-01.
By Councilman Gordon.
An emergency ordinance to enact
new Section 341.022 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
relating to the Big Creek Valley and
Cuyahoga River Valley Protective
District.
Ord. No. 2207-04.
By Council Member Conwell.
An ordinance establishing a Planned Unit Development (PUD) Overlay District and changing the Area
District from “E” to “H” on parcels
located at the Northeast corner of
Euclid Avenue and Ford Drive in
University Circle (Map Change No.
2128, Sheet No. 9).
Ord. No. 557-05.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to acquire real property from the Cleveland Municipal
School District and to sell such property to Bellaire Puritas Development
Corporation for the public purpose
of housing development.
Ord. No. 588-05.
By Council Member Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as
part of the Land Reutilization Program and located on West 45th
Street to Missionary Church of
Christ.

2207

23
Ord. No. 1532-05.
By Council Member Lipovan Holan.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Area Districts of properties
located on the north side of Spring
Road, south of Gino Lane, and on
the east side of Jennings Freeway
from a One Family Residential District and an ‘A’ Area District to a
Semi-Industry District and a ‘B’
Area District (Map Change No. 2157,
Sheet No. 6).
Ord. No. 164-06.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 33rd Street,
Cedar Avenue to Burten, Bell, Carr
Development, Inc.
Ord. No. 615-06.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as
part of the Land Reutilization Program and located on East 49th
Street to Lake Erie Barber College.
Ord. No. 1457-06.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Central Avenue to
Good Hope Baptist Church.
Ord. No. 1178-07.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 3121 East 93rd Street
to Jamal Hanini and Salti Salti.
Without objection. Ordinance No.
310-96, Ordinance No. 1146-96, Ordinance No. 1083-01, Ordinance No.
1136-01, Ordinance No. 2207-04, Ordinance No. 557-05, Ordinance No. 58805, Ordinance No. 1532-05, Ordinance
No. 164-06, Ordinance No. 615-06, Ordinance No. 1457-06, and Ordinance No.
1178-07 were laid on the table pursuant to the Rules of Council.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Ordinance No. 310-96,
Ordinance No. 1146-96, Ordinance No.
1083-01, Ordinance No. 1136-01, Ordinance No. 2207-04, Ordinance No. 55705, Ordinance No. 588-05, Ordinance
No. 1532-05, Ordinance No. 164-06,
Ordinance No. 615-06, Ordinance No.
1457-06, and Ordinance No. 1178-07
Laid on the Table.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:25 p.m. to meet on Monday, December 7, 2009 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chambers.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

The City Record

24
BOARD OF CONTROL
November 25, 2009
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, November 25,
2009, at 10:30 a.m. with Director Triozzi presiding.
Present: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Interim Director Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Others: Jim Hardy, Commissioner,
Purchases and Supplies.
Natoya Walker, Acting Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 536-09.
By Interim Director Withers.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 161-08, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
March 10, 2008, and Board of Control
Resolutions No. 525-08, adopted November 5, 2008 and No. 13-09, adopted
January 14, 2009, and No. 22-09,
adopted January 28, 2009, and No,
340-09, adopted September 2, 2009,
the City of Cleveland respectively
entered into City Contract No. 68733
with Shook, Inc. Northern Division
for the public improvement of the
Morgan Waterworks Plant Pretreatment and Residuals Project in the
amount of $42,455,724.30, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, and approved various subcontractors; and
Whereas, by its September 18, 2009
letter, Shook, Inc. Northern Division
requested the City’s approval for additional sub-contractors; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractors by Shook, Inc. Northern Division under Contract No.
68733 for the public improvement of
the Morgan Water Works Plant Pretreatment and Residuals Project, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities, is approved:
Subcontractor

MSK Cleaning, Inc.
(CSB/MBE)

Coleman Spohn Corporation
(MBE)

JADCO Construction
Services, Inc.

Grout Systems, Inc.

RAM Construction Services
of Cleveland LLC

Aetna Welding Company

B & B Wrecking &
Excavating, Inc.

Work
Percentage

$ 14,000.00
0.03%

$157,000.00
0.37%

$169,750.00
0.40%
$539,000.00
1.27%

$216,000.00
0.51%
$ 10,541.00
0.02%

$140,000.00
0.33%

December 2, 2009

Be it further resolved, that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to execute all documents and
to do all things necessary to implement the additional sub-contractors
authorized above.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Interim Director Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 537-09.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Gene’s Refrigeration Heating and Air Conditioning, Inc., for
the public improvement of Phase II
Continuation of the Residential Sound
Insulation Program, HVAC/Electrical, Contract A-09-2, all items, for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control, received on July 22,
2009 under the authority of Ordinance Nos, 930-95, 469-98 and 3272000, passed June 19, 1995, May 18,
1998 and June 12, 2000, respectively,
upon a unit basis for the improvement, in the aggregate amount of
$696,439.35, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest responsible bid; and
the Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a contract for the
improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that employment of the
following subcontractors by Gene’s
Refrigeration Heating and Air Conditioning, Inc., is approved:
Subcontractor

DBE%
Amount

Cahlik Electric, Inc.

16.80%-DBE
$117,000.00

Coleman Trucking, Inc. 1.80% Non-DBE
$ 12,600.00
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Interim Director Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 538-09.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 106-12-022, 106-12023 and 106-12-024, located at Linwood Avenue under the Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1515-09
passed November 9, 2009, authorized
the sale of the parcels for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Tyrone McCoy and Quintina McCoy have proposed to the
City to purchase and develop the
parcels for construct a house; now,
therefore,

2208

Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1515-09 passed November 9, 2009, by
the Cleveland City Council, the
Mayor is authorized to execute an
official deed for and on behalf of
the City of Cleveland with Tyrone
McCoy and Quintina McCoy for the
sale and development of Permanent
Parcel Nos. 106-12-022, 106-12-023 and
106-12-024, as described in the Ordinance according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcels shall be
$300.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the fair market
value of the parcels for uses according to the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Interim Director Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 539-09.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 106-12-015, 106-12016, 106-12-017, 106-12-045 and 106-12046, located at East 65th Street
under the Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1423-09
passed November 9, 2009, authorized
the sale of the parcels for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Artist Duncan and Phyllis Duncan have proposed to the
City to purchase and develop the
parcels for construct a house; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1423-09 passed November 9, 2009, by
the Cleveland City Council, the
Mayor is authorized to execute an
official deed for and on behalf of
the City of Cleveland with Artist
Duncan and Phyllis Duncan for the
sale and development of Permanent
Parcel Nos. 106-12-015, 106-12-016, 10612-017, 106-12-045 and 106-12-046, as
described in the Ordinance according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcels shall be
$500.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the fair market
value of the parcels for uses according to the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Interim Director Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

December 2, 2009
Resolution No. 540-09.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a Land
Reutilization Program according to
the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, the City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 104-11-074 (the “Parcel”) located on Stanard Avenue under
the Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1391-09 passed November 9, 2009, authorized the
Commissioner of Purchases & Supplies
to convey the Parcel to the Cuyahoga
County Board of Developmental Disabilities for consideration established
by the Board of Control at not less
than Fair Market Value taking into
account such terms and conditions,
restrictions and covenants as are
deemed necessary or appropriate; and
Whereas, Cuyahoga County Board
of Developmental Disabilities has proposed to the City to create, maintain
and operate an urban farm on the Parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1391-09, passed November 9, 2009 by the
Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is
authorized to execute an official deed
for and on behalf of the City of Cleveland for Permanent Parcel Number
104-11-074 to the Cuyahoga County
Board of Developmental Disabilities as
described in the Ordinance. The consideration for the conveyance to the
Cuyahoga County Board of Developmental Disabilities shall be a covenant
running with the land that the Parcel
shall be used solely for the creation,
maintenance and operation of an
urban farm, provided that if and when
the use herein intended shall cease to
exist, the Parcel shall revert back to
the City of Cleveland Land Reutilization Program, which consideration is
determined to be not less than Fair
Market Value for the Parcel for use
according to the program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Interim Director Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the

The City Record
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, DECEMBER 14, 2009
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 09-235: 12615 Elmwood
Avenue (Ward 19)
Kindt Collins Company LLC, owner,
appeals to establish use as a storage yard on an acreage parcel in a
General Industry District, where the
provisions in Section 345.04 require
that the proposed use shall be enclosed within a minimum 7-foot
high, solid masonry wall or slightly
solid, non-transparent, well maintained, substantial fence; and Section 349.04(j) requires parking for
open yard storage use to be one
space for each employee plus space
equal to 15 percent of the gross lot
area and that accessory off-street
parking
spaces,
driveways
and
maneuvering areas to be properly
graded with asphalt or concrete as
stated in Section 349.07(a) of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 09-236: 14601 Grapeland
Avenue (Ward 21)
Camille Urban, owner appeals to
erect a 6-foot tall vinyl fence and
gate in the interior side yard of a
42.91' x 110' parcel in a One-Family District, placed at a distance of
41 inches from the neighboring residence building and contrary to Section 358.04(a) that prohibits a fence
to be higher than its distance from
a residence building on an adjoining lot.
Calendar No. 09-237: 3751 Valley
Road (Ward 15)
Hill Diversified Properties, LLC,
owner, appeal to erect 477 linear
feet of 7-foot high chain link and
barbed wire fence in the “actual
front yard” of an acreage parcel in
a General Industry District, contrary
to Section 358.05(a)(1) that limits
fences in actual front yards of a
General Industry District to a height
of 6 feet; and as defined in Section
358.02(e), the term “actual yard”
shall refer to the entire lot area
between a main building and the
corresponding lot line in the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 09-238: 13507 Corby
Road (Ward 4)
Dawayne W. Johnson, owner, appeals under the authority of Section
76-6 of the Charter of the City of
Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances from a
Notice of Violation issued by the
Building and Housing Department on

2209

25
October 13, 2009 for unauthorized use
of a building and property in a TwoFamily District as a kennel.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2009
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, November 30, 2009, the following appeals
were heard by the Board.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 09-224: 2320 Schell Avenue
Tony Krol appealed to erect an open
front porch to a one family dwelling
in an A1 One-Family District.
Calendar No. 09-225: 5729 Fleet Avenue
The David Wolfson Trust appealed for a change of use from a
print shop to a painting contractor’s
office and warehouse an existing
three-story building in a Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 09-228: 740 East 152nd
Street
City of God Baptist Fellowship
appealed to change use from a day
care to a church an existing two-story
building in a General Retail Business
District; subject to condition.
Calendar No. 09-230: 7050-7100 Denison Avenue
Alex Abou Chebl, vendor, and
Thahabieh Assad, vendee, and Mike
Assad, tenant, appealed for a change
of use from an auto service garage
to a retail store in a Semi-Industry
District; subject to condition.
Calendar No. 09-149: 14201 Harvard
Avenue
Ellard Kinney appealed to expand
the use of an existing restaurant/tavern to accommodate a patio
within the front yard in a General
Retail Business District; subject to
conditions.
The following appeals were Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 09-226: 6918 Lorain
Avenue
GM Realty Company, owner, and
Westside Automotive, Inc., lessee,
appealed to establish use for a repair garage and used car sales in a
Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 09-195: 13600 Deise Avenue
Northern Lakes Management Company appealed to establish use of a
one-story structure, “the blacksmith
building,” for a warehouse and an office in a Residence Industry District.
Calendar No. 09-196: 13600 Deise Avenue
Northern Lakes Management Company appealed to establish use of a
one-story metal structure, “the corrugated building,” for a storage use
in a Residence Industry District.

The City Record

26
Calendar No. 09-197: 13600 Deise Avenue
Northern Lakes Management Company appealed to establish use of a
structure described as “the stock
building” for an office use in a Residence Industry District.
Calendar No. 09-198: 13600 Deise Avenue
Northern Lakes Management Company appealed from a decision to
deny approval of an application for
an “earthen berm” issued by the
Cleveland Division of Traffic Engineering and Construction, Department of Public Service.
The following appeals were Postponed:
None
The following appeals heard by
the Board on November 23, 2009
were
adopted
and
approved
on
November 30, 2009.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 09-217: 2070 West 25th
Street
United 25th Building, owner, and
Dave Stalter, tenant, appealed to
change from a beauty salon to a
piercing and tattooing use the first
floor space of a two-story mixed use
building; subject to condition.
Calendar No. 09-220: 5604 Franklin
Boulevard
Darwin McLellan appealed to construct an extension to an existing
front porch of a one family dwelling
in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 09-223: 2783 East 124th
Street
Cleveland Green Homes East LP I
appealed to erect a second floor
addition to a one family dwelling in
a Two-Family District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
November 25, 2009
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
*

*

*

Docket A-33-09.
RE: Appeal of Karas Properties,
Inc., Owner of the Property located
on the premises known as 4900 West
150th Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION, dated December 22, 2008 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).

No action this date, the docket
will be rescheduled in sixty (60)
days (February 03, 2010), at which
time the Board will subpoena additional
parties
as
required.
The
Board will stay the assignment or
responsibility for subsequent hearings.
*

*

*

Docket A-265-09.
RE: Appeal of Beautiful Signage,
Ltd. & Marketing Holdings Inc.,
Owners of the S-1 Storage — Moderate Hazard (Combustibles) HighRise Building located on the premises known as 2000 West 14th Street
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MAIN STRUCTURE, dated July 22,
2008 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to uphold the Condemnation Order and find that it
was properly served and enforce the
Stop Work Order from today’s date
(11/25/09). To require the titled
owner at this time, Mr. Finley, to
secure a demolition permit from the
Building Department by December
14, 2009, which means that they will
fulfill the conditions stated by the
Building
Department
which
are
lighting, air as appropriate, to hire
a security company to secure the
building and monitor the security,
safety provision for the elevator in
the
stairwell,
removal
of
combustibles, removal of toxins, including the asbestos and others, repair
the standpipe system, identify and
remove the hazardous materials;
these items should be addressed in
the permitting. The docket will be
rescheduled for January 6th, 2010 to
hear from all parties on the progress or lack of progress, at which
time the Board will decide whether
to let the building remain. Motion so
in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-279-09.
RE: Appeal of Bojack’s Meat &
Poultry, Inc., Owner of the S-1 Storage — Moderate Hazard (Combustibles) High-Rise Building located on the premises known as 2000
West 14th Street from a CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE, dated July 22, 2008 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to uphold the Condemnation Order and find that it
was properly served and enforce the
Stop Work Order from today’s date
(11/25/09). To require the titled
owner at this time, Mr. Finley, to
secure a demolition permit from the
Building Department by December
14, 2009, which means that they will
fulfill the conditions stated by the

2210

December 2, 2009
Building
Department
which
are
lighting, air as appropriate, to hire
a security company to secure the
building and monitor the security,
safety provision for the elevator in
the
stairwell,
removal
of
combustibles, removal of toxins, including the asbestos and others, repair
the standpipe system, identify and
remove the hazardous materials;
these items should be addressed in
the permitting. The docket will be
rescheduled for January 6th, 2010 to
hear from all parties on the progress or lack of progress, at which
time the Board will decide whether
to let the building remain. Motion so
in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-238-09—Triple R Associates, Ltd.
A-248-09—Sip One, LLC.
A-257-09—John R. Malone.
A-269-09—Bozo Gazic.
A-271-09—My-Linh Nguyen.
A-272-09—Richard Bros. Construction Inc.
A-275-09—Holly Hawk.
A-335-09—Jessica Diann Harris.
A-367-09—Cuyahoga County Commissioners.
A-372-09—Pat Conway.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Not Voting: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered
by Mr. Saunders and seconded by
Mr.
Bradley
for
Approval
and
Adoption of the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
November 11, 2009
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Not Voting: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE
NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
For the purpose of Section 147(f)
of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended, notice is hereby

December 2, 2009
given that on December 9, 2009, commencing at 8:30 a.m., Cleveland,
Ohio time, a public hearing will be
held at the Property Management
Office of Boulevard Terrace Apartments, located at 10119 Detroit Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio, with respect to
the proposed issuance by the Ohio
Housing Finance Agency (the “Issuer”) of its Multifamily Housing
Revenue Bonds, Series 2009 in one
or more series pursuant to a plan of
finance, in the maximum aggregate
principal amount of $15,500,000 (the
“Bonds”).
The proceeds of the Bonds will
be used to make one or more loans
(i) to Boulevard Terrace LLC, an
Ohio limited liability company (the
“Boulevard Terrace Borrower”) to
assist in financing the costs of
acquiring,
renovating,
equipping
and otherwise improving property
located at 10109-10119 Detroit Avenue and 10106-10118 Madison Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio into approximately 116 affordable rental housing units, together with appurtenant facilities (the “Boulevard
Terrace Project”) and (ii) to Neal
Terrace LLC, an Ohio limited liability company (the “Neal Terrace
Borrower”) to assist in financing
the costs of acquiring, renovating,
equipping and otherwise improving
property located the Developer and
8811 Detroit Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio into approximately 48 affordable rental housing units, together
with appurtenant facilities (the
“Neal Terrace Project”), including,
in each case, costs incidental thereto and certain issuance costs related to the Bonds. The Boulevard
Terrace Project will initially be
owned by the Boulevard Terrace
Borrower and the Neal Terrace Project will initially be owned by the
Neal
Terrace
Borrower.
THE
BONDS, WHEN ISSUED, WILL BE
SPECIAL OBLIGATIONS OF THE
OHIO HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY AND WILL NOT CONSTITUTE
A DEBT OR A PLEDGE OF THE
FAITH AND CREDIT OR OF THE
TAXING POWER OF THE OHIO
HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY, THE
STATE OF OHIO OR ANY POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION
OF
THE
STATE OF OHIO. Persons wishing
to express their views on the proposed Bond issuance may appear at
the hearing or may submit their
views in writing. Any written submissions should be sent to the
attention of the Robert D. Labes,
Esq., at the law offices of Squire,
Sanders & Dempsey L.L.P., 4900
Key Tower, 127 Public Square,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, and to Ohio
Housing Finance Agency, 57 East
Main Street, Columbus, Ohio 43215,
phone (614) 466-7970 and clearly
marked “Re: OHFA, Multifamily
Housing Revenue Bonds, Series
2009 (Boulevard and Neal Project)”.
Written
submissions
should
be
mailed in sufficient time to be
received no later than 5:00 p.m.,
Cleveland, Ohio time on December
8, 2009.
By order of the Ohio Housing
Finance Agency, Columbus, Ohio.
_____
November 25, 2009 and December 2, 2009

The City Record
CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 23, 2009
File No. 218-09 — Collinwood Recreation Center, for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 59707, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 8, 2009.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT
OF A TWO HUNDRED DOLLARS ($200.00) IN THE FORM
OF
A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
AND/OR MONEY ORDER. (NO
COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH
AND NO CREDIT CARDS WILL
BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANMEETING
DATORY
PRE-BID
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2009
AT 11:00 A.M., THE CLEVELAND
CONVENTION CENTER, 500 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44114.
File No. 219-09 — Duct Line, Street
Lighting Bases and Pull Box
Labor and Material to Install,
Repair, Replace or Maintain the
Duct Line, Street Lighting Bases

2211

27
and Pull Boxes, and Other Related Incidentals, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 540-09,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 5, 2009.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT
OF ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS
($100.00) IN THE FORM OF A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
AND/OR
MONEY ORDER. (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2009 AT 10:00 A.M.,
THE CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER
DIVISION, 1300 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
November 25, 2009 and December 2, 2009

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
____________
Res. No. 1415-09.
By
Council
Members
Mitchell,
Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
East 106th Place.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of East 106th Place, as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
Declaring the intent to vacate the
all that portion of East 106th Place
(24 feet wide) and its turnouts
extending from the south right of
way line of Carnegie Avenue S.E.
(width varies) southerly to the north
right of way line of Wilbur Avenue
S.E. (50 feet wide).
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

28
Res. No. 1730-09.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Zone, Westbrook and Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution urging
the Ohio Senate Finance Committee
not to cut the Ohio Housing Trust
Fund, and to instead support Governor Strickland’s plan to balance the
budget.
Whereas,
the
Senate
Finance
Committee has unveiled a proposal
to balance the $851 million budget
deficit, which includes cutting the
Ohio Housing Trust Fund by $30
million over the next two years;
and
Whereas, instead of delaying a
full income tax cut for two years,
as Governor Strickland has proposed, the Senate Finance Committee wants to give one-third of the
tax cut back and instead fill the
budget hole by cutting a fund for
housing and homelessness services;
and
Whereas, housing providers have
already lost Ohio Housing Trust
Fund revenue that is down to $35
million from last year’s $53 million;
and
Whereas, an additional $15 million
loss would leave the Ohio Housing
Trust Fund struggling to cover even
the most basic services; and
Whereas, currently there is only
enough funding to serve 82,000
homeless people through 90 homeless service projects, but even that
would be threatened under the Senate Finance Committee’s proposal;
and
Whereas, with homeless numbers
growing and record foreclosures
being filed, Ohio must protect the
Housing Trust Fund from raids in
any budget fix plan; and
Whereas,
Governor
Strickland
and the Ohio House of Representatives already have a proposal to
balance the budget that enjoys
wide support from organizations as
diverse as ProgressOhio, the Ohio
Chamber of Commerce, and Ohio
Business Roundtable; the Senate
Finance Committee should support
this proposal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the Ohio Senate Finance Committee
not to cut the Ohio Housing Trust
Fund, and instead to support Governor Strickland’s plan to balance
the budget.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution to
the Ohio Senate Finance Committee,
Governor Strickland, the Ohio House
of Representatives, ProgressOhio and
Mayor Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Res. No. 1731-09.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit at 3337 Central Avenue, and repealing Resolution
No. 1130-09, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 3337
Central Avenue by Resolution No.
1130-09 adopted by the Council on
August 5, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Pamela
Hubbard, DBA McClain’s Market,
3337 Central Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, Permanent Number 4034257 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1130-09, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Res. No. 1732-09.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 Liquor Permit to 11601-05 St.
Clair Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit from James Jones Enterprises, Inc., DBA Tigers Den, 11601-05 St.
Clair Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent
Number 42320070001 to Brown Chocolate, Inc., DBA Tigers Den, 11601-05
St. Clair Avenue, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent Number 1006134; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or

2212

December 2, 2009
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from James Jones Enterprises,
Inc., DBA Tigers Den, 11601-05 St.
Clair Avenue, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent Number 42320070001 to Brown
Chocolate, Inc., DBA Tigers Den,
11601-05 St. Clair Avenue, 1st floor
and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44108,
Permanent Number 1006134; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Res. No. 1733-09.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 8805
Buckeye Road, and repealing Resolution No. 1134-09, objecting to said
renewal.

December 2, 2009
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 8805
Buckeye Road by Resolution No.
1134-09 adopted by the Council on
August 5, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Buckeye
One Stop, Inc., DBA Buckeye Marathon, 8805 Buckeye Road, Cleveland,
Ohio
44104,
Permanent
Number
1072870 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 113409, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Res. No. 1734-09.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit at 3019 East
116th Street, and repealing Resolution No. 1138-09, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D5 Liquor Permit to Albert Dailey,
DBA Dailey’s, 3019 East 116th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 1896113 by Resolution No.
1138-09 adopted by the Council on
August 5, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
Liquor Permit to Albert Dailey, DBA
Dailey’s, 3019 East 116th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 1896113 be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1138-09, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the

The City Record
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Res. No. 1735-09.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 3258
East 140th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from Abell Food &
Deli, LLC, 3258 East 140th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 00241760005 to 3258 East
140th Street, Inc., DBA Abell Foods,
3258 East 140th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44120,
Permanent
Number
8871287; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Abell Food &

2213

29
Deli, LLC, 3258 East 140th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 00241760005 to 3258 East
140th Street, Inc., DBA Abell Foods,
3258 East 140th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44120,
Permanent
Number
8871287; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Res. No. 1736-09.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 12914
Griffing Avenue, and repealing Resolution No. 955-09, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 12914
Griffing Avenue by Resolution No.
955-09 adopted by the Council on
July 1, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Tortolein,
Inc., DBA Gene’s Corner Beverage,
121914 Griffing Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44120,
Permanent
Number
9002086 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 95509, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

30
Res. No. 1737-09.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New D3A
Liquor Permit at 3837 Ridge Road
and repealing Resolution No. 1617-09,
objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New D3A Liquor Permit to 3837
Ridge Road by Resolution No. 161709 adopted by the Council on November 9, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
D3A Liquor Permit to Ridge Road
Castle 3837 Inc., 3837 Ridge Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44144, Permanent
Number 7366153, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1617-09, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Ord. No. 1532-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on West 37th Street to
Ronald B. Sarstedt.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commis-

The City Record
sioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Ronald B. Sarstedt.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 007-07-024
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 25 feet of Sublot No. 37 in
Bradford and Averell’s Allotment of
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lot No. 53, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 4 of Maps, Page
9 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 25 feet front on the Westerly
side of West 37th Street (formerly
Devine Street) 104 feet 5 1/2 inches
deep on the Southerly line, about 104
feet 5 inches deep on the Northerly
line and 25 feet wide in the rear, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Ronald B. Sarstedt.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 007-07-025
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly one-half of Sublot No. 37
in Averall and Bradford’s Allotment
of a part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 53, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 4 of
Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 25 feet front on
the Westerly side of West 37th
Street 104 feet 4 1/2 inches deep on
the Northerly line, 104 feet 5 inches
deep on the Southerly line and 25
feet wide in the rear, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 5. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Ronald B. Sarstedt.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 007-07-026
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
36 in Averell and Bradford’s Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 53, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 4 of
Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 33.33 feet front
on the Westerly side of West 37th
Street and extending back between
parallel lines 104.29 feet deep on the
Northerly line, 104.37 feet deep on

2214

December 2, 2009
the Southerly line and being 33.33
feet wide in the rear, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 7. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Ronald B. Sarstedt.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 007-07-027
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
35 in Averell and Bradford’s Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 53, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 4 of
Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 33 feet 4 inches
front on the Westerly side of West
37th Street (formerly Devine Street),
104 feet 2 1/2 inches deep on the
Northerly line, 104 feet 3 1/2 inches
deep on the Southerly line and 33
feet 4 inches wide in the rear, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 9. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Ronald B. Sarstedt.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 007-07-028
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
34 in Averill and Bradford’s Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 53, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 4 of
Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 33 feet 4 inches
front on the Westerly side of West
37th Street, (formerly Devine Street),
104 feet 3/4 inches deep on the
Northerly line, 104 feet 2 1/2 inches
deep on the Southerly line, 33 feet 4
inches wide in the rear, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 11. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.

December 2, 2009
Section 12. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 13. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 14. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Ord. No. 761-09.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more amendments
to Contract No. 66946 with the Cleveland National Air Show, Inc. to increase the leased premises by including the use of portions of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
for Airshow purposes.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into one or more amendments to
Contract No. 66946 with the Cleveland National Air Show, Inc. (“Air
Show”) to increase the leased premises by including the use of portions
of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport for purposes of constructing
and installing an arresting gear system, including permanent concrete
foundations, to be used to safely
bring
tactical
jet
and
Blue
Angel/Thunderbird aircraft to a
stop in the event of an in-flight
emergency during the air show.
Section 2. The amendment or
amendments shall authorize the Air
Show to make improvements to the
leased premises at their sole cost
and expense, subject to the approval
of appropriate city agencies and
officials. The rent for the additional square footage shall be included
in the rent specified in Contract No.
66946.

The City Record
All other terms and conditions of
Contract No 66946 shall remain the
same.
Section 3. That the amendment or
amendments shall be prepared by
the Director of Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Ord. No. 1050-09.
By
Council
Members
Mitchell,
Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to the Cleveland Clinic Foundation to encroach into the
public right-of-way beneath East
100th Street and Cedar Avenue by
installing, using, and maintaining
electrical service and teledata cabling duct banks.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to issue a
permit, revocable at the will of Council, to the Cleveland Clinic Foundation, 9500 Euclid Avenue, mailstop
cc41, Cleveland, Ohio 44195 (“Permittee”), to encroach into the public
right-of-way beneath East 100th Street
and Cedar Avenue by installing,
using, and maintaining electrical service and teledata cabling duct banks,
at the following locations:
Legal Description: Private Utility
Encroachment East 100th Street
600 Square Feet
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio known and being more fully
described as follows:
Beginning at the northwesterly
right of way intersection of East
100th Street (60) and Cedar Avenue
(66);
Thence N 04° 07' 35" W along the
westerly right of way line of East
100th Street (60) a distance of 239.86
feet to a point, said point being the
principal place of beginning of the
encroachment herein intended to be
described;
Thence N 04° 07' 35" W continuing along the westerly right of way
line of East 100th Street (60) a distance of 10.00 feet to a point:
Thence N 85° 52' 25" E a distance
of 60.00 feet to a point on the easterly right of way line of East 100th
Street (60);
Thence S 04° 07' 35" E along said
easterly right of way line of East
100th Street (60) a distance of 10.00
feet to a point;

2215

31
Thence S 85° 52' 25" W a distance
of 60.00 feet to the principal place
of beginning and containing 600
square feet as calculated and described by URS Corporation in June
2009.
Legal Description: Private Utility
Encroachment Cedar Avenue
660 Square Feet
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio known and being more fully
described as follows:
Beginning at the northwesterly
right of way intersection of East
100th Street (60) and Cedar Avenue
(66);
Thence N 89° 50' 53" E along the
northerly right of way line of Cedar
Avenue (66) a distance of 92.00 feet
to a point, said point being the principal place of beginning of the
encroachment herein intended to be
described;
Thence N 89° 50' 53" E continuing along the northerly right of way
line of Cedar Avenue (66) a distance
of 10.00 feet to a point:
Thence S 00° 09' 07" E a distance
of 66.00 feet to a point on the
southerly right of way line of Cedar
Avenue (66);
Thence S 89° 50' 53" W along said
southerly right of way line of Cedar
Avenue (66) a distance of 10.00 feet
to a point;
Thence N 00° 09' 07" W a distance
of 66.00 feet to the principal place
of beginning and containing 660
square feet as calculated and described by URS Corporation in June
2009.
Legal Description: Private Utility
Encroachment Cedar Avenue
660 Square Feet
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio known and being more fully
described as follows:
Beginning at the northwesterly
right of way intersection of East
100th Street (60) and Cedar Avenue
(66);
Thence N 89° 50' 53" E along the
northerly right of way line of Cedar
Avenue (66) a distance of 285.82
feet to a point, said point being the
principal place of beginning of the
encroachment herein intended to be
described;
Thence N 89° 50' 53" E continuing along the northerly right of way
line of Cedar Avenue (66) a distance
of 10.00 feet to a point:
Thence S 00° 09' 07" E a distance
of 66.00 feet to a point on the southerly right of way line of Cedar
Avenue (66);
Thence S 89° 50' 53" W along said
southerly right of way line of Cedar
Avenue (66) a distance of 10.00 feet
to a point;
Thence N 00° 09' 07" W a distance
of 66.00 feet to the principal place
of beginning and containing 660
square
feet
as
calculated
and
described by URS Corporation in
June 2009.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.

32
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of Public Service. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans
and specifications approved by the
Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall
incorporate such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest. The permit shall be
issued only when, in the opinion of
the Director of Law, Permittee has
properly
indemnified
the
City
against any loss that may result
from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Ord. No. 1509-09.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to exercise an option to renew Contract No. 68584 with Kronos Incorporated to provide maintenance to
the current time and attendance
workforce system and software and
hardware support for the Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 632-08, passed June 2,
2008, the Director of Public Utilities
entered into Contract No. 68584 with
Kronos
Incorporated
to
provide
maintenance to the current time and
attendance workforce system and
software and hardware support; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 632-08 requires further legislation before exercising the second option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
exercise the option to renew Contract No. 68584 for an additional
year at a cost not to exceed
$53,215.34, with Kronos Incorporated
to provide maintenance to the cur-

The City Record
rent time and attendance workforce
system and software and hardware
support for the Department of Public Utilities, payable from Fund No.
52 SF 001, Request No. 199027. This
ordinance constitutes the additional
legislative authority required by
Ordinance No. 632-08 to exercise this
option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Ord. No. 1511-09.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement for the environmental clean-up of property known
as the Lower Woolen Mills; and
authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into one
or more public improvement contracts
for
the
making
of
the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement for
the environmental clean-up of property known as Lower Woolen Mills,
located between East 55th Street
and Ackley Road, for the Department of Community Development,
by one or more contracts duly let to
the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding for a
gross price for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts for the making of the public
improvement with the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding for a gross price
for the improvement, provided, however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a gross price.
On request of the director the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule of unit prices, including profit
and overhead, for all items constituting units of the improvement.
Section 3. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 19 SF 608, Request No. 178666.

2216

December 2, 2009
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Ord. No. 1514-09.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 2226 East 70th Street
to John Truett and E. Marie Truett.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to John
Truett and E. Marie Truett.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-22-060
Situated in the County of Cuyahoga in the State of Ohio and in the
City of Cleveland: Being Northerly
39.92 feet front and rear of Sublot
No. 93 in Coleman and Van Tine's
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 335 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 17
of Maps, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 39.92 feet front
on the Westerly side of East 70th
Street (formerly Irvington Street) and
extending back 138.77 feet deep on
the Northerly line, about 138.84 feet
deep on the Southerly line and being
39.92 feet in the rear, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are

December 2, 2009
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Ord. No. 1516-09.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 9606 Larnder Avenue
to Joseph Frank Ponikvar, Jr.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Joseph Frank Ponikvar, Jr.

The City Record
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 005-27-118
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio: and known as being Sublot No.
40 in G.W. Fackler and S.W. Johnson’s Allotment of part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 12 and
13 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 8 of Maps, Page 25 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 40
feet front on the Northerly side of
Lardner Avenue, N.W, and extending back of equal width 140.00 feet,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Ord. No. 1538-09.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials needed to repair or replace water mains, fire hydrants,

2217

33
service connections, and appurtenances, including concrete repair,
and tree lawn restoration, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of one
year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year of the necessary items of labor
and materials needed to repair or
replace water mains, fire hydrants,
service
connections,
and
appurtenances, including concrete repair,
and tree lawn restoration, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that
permits an award to be made for
all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any
combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 199055)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

34
Ord. No. 1539-09.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more requirement contracts without competitive
bidding with Motorola for equipment
and supplies to operate the radio
system and its subscriber units,
including
equipment,
installation
and maintenance, for the Department of Public Utilities, for a period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council determines that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Motorola. Therefore, the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts with Motorola under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
the requirements for a period not to
exceed two years of the necessary
items of equipment and supplies to
operate the radio system and its
subscriber units, including equipment, installation and maintenance,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a
unit basis, for the Department of
Public Utilities.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 169277)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Ord. No. 1540-09.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to design a pump station in the City of Bedford Heights,
including connecting the Aurora
Road water main to the new pump
station.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

The City Record
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to design a pump
station in the City of Bedford
Heights, including connecting the
Aurora Road water main to the new
pump station.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Utilities for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract
or
contracts
authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Utilities, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to pay
the cost of utilities for the new
pump station.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 52 SF 235,
Request No. 199051.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Ord. No. 1544-09.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into lease agreements with
various companies for the use of certain Airport-owned space at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
and Burke Lakefront Airport, for a
period of two years, with two oneyear options to renew, the first of
which is exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter

2218

December 2, 2009
into the following lease agreements,
for general office space to be located in the terminal building at Burke
Lakefront Airport (“Burke”), for the
following approximate square footage:
Brown Eagle Construction, LLC, 715
square feet;
Electric Transport, LLC, 670 square
feet;
J.L.J.I. Enterprises Inc., 533 square
feet;
For use of their leased premises,
each Lessee shall pay the City an
annual fee of $12.50 per square foot,
which is determined to be fair market value.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a lease agreement with Brendan Airways, LLC, dba USA 3000
(“Brendan”) for approximately 408
square feet of space located on the
ticketing level of the terminal building at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (“Hopkins”), to be
used as office space. For use of the
leased premises, Brendan shall pay
the City an annual fee of $343.42 per
square foot, which is determined to
be fair market value.
Section 3. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into one or more lease agreements
with United States of America, acting through the General Services
Administration on behalf of the
Transportation Security Administration (“USA”) for baggage and passenger screening and office space at
various locations in the terminal
building at Hopkins, in the following approximate square footage and
for the following annual fees per
square foot, which is determined to
be fair market value:
378 square feet at $65.09 per square
foot
1,157 square feet at $81.64 per square
foot
903 square feet at $162.45 per square
foot
1,375 square feet at $162.45 per square
foot
1,139 square feet at $162.45 per square
foot
Section 4. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into a
lease agreement with Parking Solutions, Inc. (“Parking Solutions”) for
approximately 170 square feet of
space located in the terminal building at Hopkins, to be used for office
space. For use of the leased premises, Parking Solutions shall pay the
City an annual fee of $162.45 per
square foot, which is determined to
be fair market value.
Section 5. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a lease agreement with Flight
Services & Systems, Inc. (“Flight
Services”) for approximately 160
square feet of space located in the
terminal building at Hopkins, to be
used for office space. For use of
the leased premises, Flight Services shall pay the City an annual
fee of $65.09 per square foot, which

December 2, 2009
is determined to be fair market
value.
Section 6. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a lease agreement with United
Services Organization, Inc. (“USO”)
for approximately 1,129 square feet
of space located in the terminal
building at Hopkins, to be used for
office space. For use of the leased
premises, USO shall pay the City an
annual fee of $1.00 per year and
other valuable consideration, which
is determined to be fair market
value.
Section 7. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a lease agreement with Aeromag2000 CLE, LLC (“Aeromag”) for
approximately 11,025 square feet of
space located in the United Cargo
Building at Hopkins, to be used for
air cargo handling and storage. For
use of the leased premises, Aeromag
shall pay the City an annual fee of
$7.00 per square foot, which is determined to be fair market value.
Section 8. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a lease agreement with Servisair USA, Inc. (“Servisair”) for approximately 8,500 square feet of
space located in the United Cargo
Building at Hopkins, to be used for
air cargo handling and storage. For
use of the leased premises, Servisair
shall pay the City an annual fee of
$7.00 per square foot, which is determined to be fair market value.
Section 9. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a lease agreement with Inland
Waters of Ohio, Inc. (“Inland”) for
approximately 28,375 square feet of
space located in the United Cargo
Building at Hopkins, to be used for
storing and maintaining deicing
equipment. For use of the leased
premises, Inland shall pay the City
an annual fee of $7.00 per square
foot, which is determined to be fair
market value.
Section 10. That, notwithstanding
the provisions of Chapter 183, the
Director may enter into the lease
agreements authorized in this ordinance. The rent for each lease shall
be paid in monthly installments due
on the first day of each month during the term of each lease or as otherwise provided in the lease for the
USO. Each lease may authorize the
Lessee to make improvements to
their leased premises subject to the
approval of appropriate City agencies and officials.
Section 11. That the term of each
lease authorized in this ordinance
shall be for a period of two years,
with two one-year options to renew.
The first of the one-year options to
renew for each lease may not be
exercised without additional legislative authority. If such additional
legislative authority is granted and
the first of the one-year options to
renew is exercised for each agreement, then the second of the oneyear options to renew may be exercisable at the option of the Director
of Port Control, without the necessity of obtaining additional authority of this Council.

The City Record
Section 12. That the Director of
Port Control, the Director of Law,
and other appropriate City officials
are authorized to execute any other
documents and certificates, and take
any other actions which may be necessary or appropriate to effect the
Leases authorized by this ordinance.
Section 13. The annual rent for
space in the terminal building at
Burke and the former United Cargo
Building at Hopkins for the option
terms
shall
be
established
by
appraisal, to be paid for by the City.
Section 14. The annual rent for
space in the terminal building at
Hopkins shall be calculated annually in accordance with the formula
contained in the Agreement and
Lease, as amended, by and between
the City of Cleveland and the various signatory airlines except as otherwise provided in the lease for the
USO.
Section 15. That the leases authorized by this ordinance shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 16. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Ord. No. 1546-09.
By Council Members Cleveland
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health for the 2010 Immunization
Action Plan Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the approximate amount of $90,538.30, and
any other funds as they become
available during the grant term,
from the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health, to conduct the 2010 Immunization Action Plan Program, for
the purposes in the summary and
according thereto; that the Director
of Public Health is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes in the summary for the grant.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1546-09-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects

2219

35
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Ord. No. 1547-09.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the 2010 Federal AIDS Prevention
Program; and to enter into contract
with various agencies to implement
the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $900,000, and
any other funds as they become
available during the grant term,
from the Ohio Department of Health,
to conduct the 2010 Federal AIDS
Prevention Program, for the purposes in the summary and according
thereto; that the Director of Public
Health is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and the funds are appropriated for the purposes in the summary for the grant.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1547-09-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the
public hearing on this legislation, is
approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with various agencies to implement the program as described in the summary
contained in the file. In addition, the
approximate sum of $213,225.00 is
appropriated to the Department of
Public Health for Clinical/DIS Programming; the approximate sum of
$129,491.98 is appropriated for ad-

36
ministrative costs of implementing
this program; and the approximate
sum of $105,000 is appropriated for
community planning for events.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 6. That the cost of the contracts authorized above shall be
paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Ord. No. 1549-09.
By Council Members Cleveland
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Aging and Consumer Affairs to apply for and accept grants from the National Council on Aging, the Cleveland Foundation, and the McGregor Foundation for the Economic Security Project for Cleveland Seniors; and to
enter into contract with various
agencies to implement the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of
Aging and Consumer Affairs are
authorized to apply for and accept
grants in the total approximate
amount of $230,000, from the National Council on Aging, the Cleveland Foundation, and the McGregor
Foundation, and any other funds as
they become available during the
project term, to conduct the pilot
Economic Security Project for Cleveland Seniors for years 2010 and 2011,
for the purposes in the summary
and according thereto; that the
Directors of Aging and Consumer
Affairs are authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grants; and the funds are appropriated for the purposes in the summary for the grants.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grants, File No. 1549-09-B, made
a part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance

The City Record
Committee of this Council at the
public hearing on this legislation, is
approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Directors of
Aging and Consumer Affairs are
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with various agencies to
implement the program as described
in the summary contained in the
file, payable from the fund or funds
to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Directors of
Aging and Consumer Affairs shall
have the authority to extend the
term of the grant during the grant
term.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Ord. No. 1554-09.
By Council Member Cloud.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on St. Clair Avenue to
Rania Najjar.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Rania
Najjar.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 108-14-009
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 222 in William Ambler’s

2220

December 2, 2009
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 362, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 38
of Maps, Page 23 of Cuyahoga County Records, and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the Southeast corner of said Sublot No. 222; thence
Westerly along the Northerly line
of St. Clair Avenue, N.E., 40 feet to
a point; thence Northerly parallel
with the Easterly line of Sublot No.
222 so far as to intersect a line
drawn from a point on the Easterly line of East 109th Street, 104.50
feet Northerly from its intersection
with the Northerly line of St. Clair
Avenue, N.E., to a point on the
Easterly line of said Sublot No. 222,
85.07 feet Northerly from its intersection with the Northerly line of
St. Clair Avenue, N.E.; thence Easterly along said last described line
to the Easterly line of Sublot No.
222; thence Southerly along the
Easterly line of Sublot No. 222,
85.07 feet to the place of beginning,
as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to
all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

December 2, 2009
Ord. No. 1555-09.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Hough Avenue to
Geraldine Laster and Bobbie C.
Laster.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Geraldine Laster and Bobbie C. Laster.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 119-03-037
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being the Easterly part of Sublot No. 4 and the
Westerly one-half of Sublot No. 5 in
C.D. Bishop’s Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot 391,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 14 of Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Records, and together
forming a parcel of land, bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line of
Hough Avenue, N.E., at a point
which is distant 37.50 feet Easterly
measured along said Southerly line
from the Northwesterly corner of
said Sublot No. 5; thence Westerly
along the Southerly line of Hough
Avenue, N.E., 62.40 feet to the Northeasterly corner of land conveyed to
Hough Property, Inc., by deed dated
May 20, 1948 and recorded in Volume
6498, Page 481 of Cuyahoga County
Records; thence Southerly along the
Easterly line of land so conveyed to
Hough Property, Inc., 70 feet to the
Southeasterly corner thereof; thence
Westerly along the Southerly line of
land so conveyed to Hough Property, Inc. 0.11 feet to a point which is
distance 25 feet Westerly from the
Easterly line of said Sublot No. 4;
thence Southerly and parallel with
the Easterly line of said Sublot No.
4, about 70.35 feet to the Southerly
line of said Sublot No. 4; thence
Easterly along the Southerly line of
said Sublot Nos. 4 and 5, 62.50 feet;

The City Record
thence Northerly and parallel with
the Westerly line of said Sublot No.
5 about 140.35 feet to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
P. P. No. 119-03-038
Parcel No. 1
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly 50 feet of Sublot No. 4 in C.D.
Bishop’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 391,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 14 of Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 50
feet front on the Southerly side of
Hough Avenue and extending back
about 143 feet 3-1/2 inches on the
Easterly line, 143 feet 3-4/5 inches
on the Westerly line, and have a
rear line of 50 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Parcel No. 2
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 4 in C.D. Bishop’s Subdivision and part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 391, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 14 of
Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning in the Southerly line
of Hough Avenue, N.E., at a point
distant Easterly 50 feet from the
Northwesterly corner of said Sublot
No. 4; thence Southerly parallel
with the Westerly line of said
Sublot 70 feet to the Southerly line
of the two story brick building now
standing on the Westerly part of
said Sublot; thence Easterly parallel with the Southerly line of
Hough Avenue, N.E., 00.11 feet to
the Easterly face of the Easterly
brick wall of said building now
standing on the Westerly part of
said Sublot No. 4; thence Northerly
along the Easterly face of said
Easterly brick wall, 70 feet to the
Southerly line of Hough Avenue,
N.E., at a point 50.10 feet Easterly
from the Northwesterly corner of
said Sublot; thence Westerly along
the
Southerly
line
of
Hough
Avenue, N.E., 00.10 feet to the place
of beginning, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
P. P. No. 119-03-039
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being the Easterly 37 feet 6 inches of Sublot No. 3
in a Re-survey of C. E. Bishop's Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 391 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 14 of
Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 37 feet 6 inches
front on the Southerly side of Hough

2221

37
Avenue, N. E. and extending back
140 feet-3-8/10 inches in the Easterly
line, 140 feet 4 inches on the Westerly line and having rear line of 37
feet 6 inches, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Ord. No. 1620-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase,
lease or lease to purchase by requirement contract of various types
of vehicles and apparatus, including
maintenance, for various Divisions
in the Departments of Public Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties,
and
Public
Safety,
among
others.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified

38
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of one year for the necessary items
of various types of vehicles and
apparatus described in the Executive Summary placed in File No.
1620-09-A, or such other vehicle or
apparatus in substitution thereof as
may be approved by the Directors of
Public Service and Finance as replacement vehicles or apparatus,
including maintnenace, in the estimated sum of $6,585,900, to be purchased, leased or leased to purchase
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
various Divisions in the Departments of Public Service, Parks,
Recreation and Properties, and Public Safety, among others. Bids shall
be taken in such manner as to permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for a requirements contract for the
entire year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation account and the Director of Finance shall certify thereon
the amount of the initial purchase or
procurement thereunder, which purchase or procurement, together with
all subsequent purchases or procurements, shall be made on order of the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
pursuant
to
a
requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance.
Section 3. That the City may
enter
into
a
lease-purchase
arrangement for the vehicles and
apparatus with a bank, leasing
company or any other organization
that is not the manufacturer or
vendor of the vehicles or apparatus
that submitted a bid for the sale,
lease
or
lease
to
purchase
described in Section 1 of this ordinance, provided that: (I) the Director of Finance determines that it is
in the best interest of the City to
enter
into
that
lease-purchase
arrangement, (II) the maximum
term
of
any
lease-purchase
arrangement does not exceed ten
(10) years, (III) the aggregate
principal obligation of the City
under the lease-purchase arrangement does not exceed $6,750,000,
(IV) if the lease-purchase arrangement provides that the lease pay-

The City Record
ments are to have a principal component and an interest component,
the maximum interest rate for the
interest component does not exceed
seven percent (7%) per annum, (V)
the obligations of the City under
that
lease-purchase
arrangement
for fiscal years beginning after
December 31, 2009 are subject to
annual appropriations being made
by the City sufficient to pay the
lease payments and to meet the
other obligations of the City under
that lease-purchase arrangement in
each of these fiscal years, and (VI)
the obligations of the City thereunder for the current fiscal year do
not exceed $25,000, which amount is
hereby appropriated for that purpose. The Director of Finance is
authorized and directed to sign and
deliver, for and on behalf of the
City and in the Director’s official
capacity, such written agreements,
certificates
and
instruments
as
may be necessary or appropriate in
order to provide for that lease-purchase arrangement under the terms
and conditions authorized herein
and
containing
such
additional
terms and conditions as are acceptable to the Director of Finance and
the Director of Law. Those agreements may include a lease-purchase agreement, an escrow agreement for the deposit by the lessor
of the purchase price of the vehicles and apparatus, acceptance certificates
evidencing
the
City’s
acceptance of the vehicles from the
vendors, and certificates as to
insurance,
tax
compliance
and
related matters necessary to carry
out the transaction. The lease-purchase arrangement may provide
that the lease payments are to
have a principal component and an
interest component and that the
interest component is to be excluded from gross income for federal
income tax purposes. In that event,
the Director of Finance and other
City officials, as appropriate, are
authorized to covenant on behalf of
the City that (I) the City will use
and will restrict the use of the
vehicles and apparatus leased by
the City under the lease-purchase
agreement and will use, and will
restrict the investment of, any proceeds of the lease-purchase agreement in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
the lease-purchase agreement will
not constitute a private activity
bond, an arbitrage bond or a hedge
bond under the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended (the

December 2, 2009
“Code”), or be treated other than as
an obligation to which Section
103(a) of the Code applies, and (II)
the City will take or cause to be
taken such actions that may be
required of it for the interest component of the lease payments to be
and to remain excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes and the City will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions
that would adversely affect that
exclusion. In the event that the
City enters into such a lease-purchase arrangement, the Director of
Public Service may assign to the
lessor
under
the
lease-purchase
arrangement,
or
the
lessor’s
designee, the rights of the City
under the contracts for purchase of
the vehicles and apparatus authorized in Section 1 of this ordinance.
The Director of Law, Clerk of
Council and other appropriate officials of the City are authorized to
sign and deliver any documents,
certificates and other instruments
as the Director of Law determines
are necessary and appropriate to
carry out the transactions authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Finance
may sign all documents that are
necessary to make the purchases,
and may enter into one or more contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 5. That it is hereby found
and determined that all formal actions of this Council concerning and
relating to the passage of this Ordinance where adopted in open meetings of this Council, and any of its
committees that resulted in such formal action were in meetings open to
the public in compliance with the
law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Ord. No. 1721-09.
By Council Members Pruitt and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving in its entirety the Fact-Finder’s report, findings and recommendations in
the matter of City of Cleveland and the Communication Workers of America, Local 4340 (CWA); to amend Section 33 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008; and to supplement Ordinance No. 947-08, by enacting new Section 22a, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, having duly considered the Fact-Finder’s report, findings and recommendations in the matter
of City of Cleveland and the Communications Workers of America, Local 4340, (CWA) which were delivered to

2222

December 2, 2009

The City Record

39

the City on November 17, 2009, which the City received by e-mail, a copy of which is contained in File No. 172109-A, this Council accepts the Fact-Finder’s report, findings, and recommendations in their entirety, including the
agreements reached between the City and CWA, as set forth in the executive summary also placed in the file,
which provide, among other things, for an increase in the salaries and wages for members of the bargaining unit
under the following schedule:
Increase

Approximate Date of Increase*

0%
0%
2%

April 1, 2007
April 1, 2008
April 1, 2009

*Wage increases shall be effective as follows:
(a) If April 1st falls in the first week of a pay period, then the wage increase shall be effective commencing
at the beginning of that pay period; or
(b) If April 1st falls in the second week of a pay period, then the wage increase shall be effective commencing at the beginning of the next pay period.
Section 2. That Section 33 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008 is amended to read as follows:
Section 33. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.

Airport Maintenance Superintendent ...................................
Assistant Commissioner of Recreation...............................
Assistant Contract Compliance Officer ..............................
Assistant Director of Public Health Nurses ....................
Assistant Income Tax ...............................................................
Assistant Manager of Audit Control and Personnel ........
Assistant Manager of Recreation .........................................
Assistant Superintendent of Pumping ................................
Assistant Superintendent of Purification ..........................
Auditor ............................................................................................
Chief Alcoholism Coordinating Service ..............................
Chief of the Demolition Bureau ...........................................
Chief Plan Examiner ................................................................
City Planner..................................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Recreation-Fiscal 20,092.80 ..$69,660.19
Deputy Project Director ...........................................................
Desktop Publishing Specialist ...............................................
District Supervisor – Environmental Health ...................
Income Tax Supervisor.............................................................
Office of Professional Standards – Investigative
Auditor ........................................................................................
Office of Professional Standards – Standards
Research/Analyst ....................................................................
Assistant Plumbing Inspector................................................
Project Program Director of Consumer Affairs .............
Recreation Center Manager ....................................................
Superintendent of Light Equipment Maintenance .........
Superintendent of Vehicle Administrative
Services .......................................................................................
Supervisor Administrative Services-Data
Processing Center ...................................................................
Supervisor of Milk Program...................................................
Supervisor of Vector Control..................................................
Welfare Liaison ...........................................................................

Minimum
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$30,000.00

Maximum
$61,296.21
$69,660.19
$55,191.48
$55,191.48
$55,191.48
$57,123.96
$55,191.48
$55,191.48
$55,191.48
$57,123.96
$55,191.48
$55,191.48
$57,123.96
$58,939.58

$20,092.80
$20,231.40
$20,092.80
$20,092.80

$61,006.23
$56,422.81
$58,939.58
$55,191.48

$20,092.80

$55,191.48

$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$32,500.00
$20,092.80

$55,191.48
$39,971.83
$55,191.48
$69,660.19
$55,191.48

$20,092.80

$68,744.81

$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80
$20,092.80

$55,191.48
$55,191.48
$55,191.48
$55,191.48

Section 3. That Section 33 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008 is repealed.
Section 4. That Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008 is supplemented by adding new Section 22a to read
as follows:
Section 22a. Communication Workers of America, Local 4340 (CWA). That the salaries and compensation in the
following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing
after each classification:

1.

Emergency Medical Technician Supervisor ......................

Minimum
$20,092.80

Maximum
$58,266.43

Section 5. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

2223

The City Record

40
Ord. No. 1728-09.
By Council Members Cloud and
Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing to enter into an
agreement with the Glenville Development Corporation for the Demolition/Disposition Initiative through
the use of Ward(s) 8 and 9 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing is authorized to enter into an
agreement with the Glenville Development Corporation for the Demolition/Disposition Initiative for the
public purpose of accessing and prioritizing those residential housing
structures that are in the city of
Cleveland
through
the
use
of
Ward(s) 8 and 9 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $20,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

Ord. No. 1729-09.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Economic Development to enter into
agreement with Youngstown Donut
Associates LLC., for the Dunkin

Donuts Development Project through
the use of Ward 1 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Economic Development is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Youngstown Donut
Associates LLC., for the Dunkin
Donuts Development Project for the
public purpose of providing new job
creation
to
Cleveland
residents
through the use of Ward 1 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $25,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 23, 2009.
Effective November 27, 2009.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

December 2, 2009
islation: Dow, Chair; Keane, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cloud, Johnson,
Reed, Wilkes.
Present in Service: Brady, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Johnson, Polensek, Reed, Santiago, Wilkes.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair; Brady,
Brancatelli, Cleveland, Conwell, Kelley, Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Westbrook.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Westbrook, Mitchell,
Kelley, Miller, Cleveland, Conwell,
Polensek.
Tuesday, December 1, 2009
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair;
Brady, Cloud, Cummins, Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone. Authorized Absence:
Miller.
2:00 p.m.
Employment, Affirmative Action
and Training Committee: Present:
Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice Chair;
Conwell, Cummins, Mitchell. Authorized Absence: Dow, Johnson.
Wednesday, December 2, 2009
10:00 a.m.
Public Safety Committee: Present:
Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice Chair;
Cummins, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Santiago, Zone. Authorized Absence:
Miller.

Monday, November 30, 2009

1:00 p.m.

9:30 a.m.

City Planning (Zoning) Committee:
Present:
Cimperman,
Chair;
Westbrook, Vice Chair; Dow, Keane,
Reed, Zone. Authorized Absence:
Conwell.

Public Parks, Property and Recreations Committee: Present: Johnson,
Chair; Wilkes, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek,
Pruitt.
11:00 a.m.
Legislation, Public Service, and
Finance Committees: Present in Leg-

1:30 p.m.
Public Utilities Committee: Present:
Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice Chair; Cummins, Keane, Kelley, Polensek, Santiago, Westbrook, Wilkes.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Economic Security Project for Cleveland Seniors — Grants — various agencies
(O 1549-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2220

Agreements
Clerk of Council — Guy Gadomski, CPA (financial consulting & auditing services)
(O 1760-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2202
Demolition/Disposition Initiative — Glenville Development Corp. — Building and Housing
Dept. (Ward(s) 8, 9 NCF) (O 1728-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2224
Dunkin Donuts Development Project — Economic Development (Ward 01 NCF) (O 1729-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2224

2224

December 2, 2009

The City Record

41

Economic Development — cooperative agreement — Cuy. Co. Port Authority & Flats East
Development LLC — (TIF) (O 1758-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2194
Economic Development — cooperative agreement — Cuy. & Summit Co. Port Authority —
State of Ohio Treasurer — Flats East Development, LLC (O 1759-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2195
Flats Oxbow Strategies Long Range Development Plan — City Planning Commission
(Ward 14 NCF) (O 1762-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2202

AIDS
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2010 — various agencies — Grants — Ohio Department of
Health (O 1547-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2219

Appropriations
Appropriations — Temporary — January 1, 2010 (O 1722-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
Appropriations — ($800,000) — Convention Center Funds (O 1723-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

Automobiles
Exercise options to renew contracts for the towing and salvaging of motor vehicles
(O 790-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2205

Bellaire Puritas Development Corporation
Cleveland Municipal School District — property — acquire and sell (O 557-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
East 103rd Street, 2267 (Ward 6) — My-Linh Nguyen, owner — appeal adopted
on 11/25/09 (Doc. A-271-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 84th Street, 1597 (Ward 7) — Richard Bros. Construction Inc., owner —
appeal adopted on 11/25/09 (Doc. A-272-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 89th Street, 2437 (Ward 6) — Jessica Diann Harris, owner — appeal adopted
on 11/25/09 (Doc. A-335-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eddy Road, 838 (Ward 9) — Sip One, owner — appeal adopted on 11/25/09 (Doc. A-248-09) . . . .
Jewett Avenue, 4801 (Ward 5) — Bozo Gazic, owner — appeal adopted on 11/25/09
(Doc. A-269-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeview Road, 877 (Ward 9) — Holly Hawk, owner — appeal adopted on 11/25/09
(Doc. A-275-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Melbourne Avenue, 3730 (Ward 6) — Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners, owner —
appeal adopted on 11/25/09 (Doc. A-367-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mt. Overlook Avenue, 11017 (Ward 6) — John R. Malone, owner — appeal adopted on 11/25/09
(Doc. A-257-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 5703 (Ward 13) — Triple R Associates, Ltd., owner — appeal adopted on
11/25/09 (Doc. A-238-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 14th Street, 2000 (Ward 13) — Beautiful Signage, Ltd. & Marketing Holdings Inc.,
owner — appeal resolved on 11/25/09 (Doc. A-265-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 14th Street, 2000 (Ward 13) — Bojack’s Meat & Poultry, Inc., owner — appeal
resolved on 11/25/09 (Doc. A-279-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 150th Street, 4900 (Ward 20) — Karas Properties, Inc., owner — appeal rescheduled
to 02/03/09 on 11/25/09 (Doc. A-33-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 28th Street, 1947 (Ward 13) — Pat Conway, owner — appeal adopted on 11/25/09
(Doc. A-372-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2210
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2210
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2210
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2210
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2210
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2210
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2210
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2210
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2210
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2210
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2210
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2210
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2210

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Residential Sound Insulation Program, Phase 2 Continuation, HVAC/Electrical
Construction (Contract A-09-2) — per Ord. 930-95, 469-98, 327-2000 to Gene’s
Refrigeration Heating and Air Conditioning, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 537-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2208

Board of Control — Community Development Department
East 65th Street (Ward 7) — various parcels — Artist Duncan and Phyllis Duncan
per Ord. 1423-09 (BOC Res. 539-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2208
Linwood Avenue (Ward 7) — PPN 106-12-022/023/024 — Tyrone McCoy and
Quintina McCoy per Ord. 1515-09 (BOC Res. 538-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2208
Stanard Avenue (Ward 13) — PPN 104-11-074 — convey — Cuyahoga County
Board of Developmental Disabilities per Ord. 1391-09 (BOC Res. 540-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2209

Board of Control — Garrett A. Morgan Water Works Plant
Pretreatment and Residuals Project — approve subcontractors — Contract #68733 per
BOC Res. 525-08, 13-09, 22-09, 340-09 — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 536-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2208

2225

The City Record

42

December 2, 2009

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East 65th Street (Ward 7) — various parcels — Artist Duncan and Phyllis Duncan per Ord.
1423-09 (BOC Res. 539-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Linwood Avenue (Ward 7) — PPN 106-12-022/023/024 — Tyrone McCoy and Quintina McCoy
Ord. 1515-09 (BOC Res. 538-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stanard Avenue (Ward 13) — PPN 104-11-074 — convey — Cuyahoga County Board of
Developmental Disabilities per Ord. 1391-09 (BOC Res. 540-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2208
per
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2208
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2209

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Residential Sound Insulation Program, Phase 2 Continuation, HVAC/Electrical Construction
(Contract A-09-2) — per Ord. 930-95, 469-98, 327-2000 to Gene’s Refrigeration
Heating and Air Conditioning, Inc. — Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (BOC Res. 537-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2208

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Morgan Water Works Plant Pretreatment and Residuals Project — approve subcontractors —
Contract #68733 per BOC Res. 525-08, 13-09, 22-09, 340-09 — Division of Water, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 536-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2208
Residential Sound Insulation Program, Phase 2 Continuation, HVAC/Electrical Construction
(Contract A-09-2) — per Ord. 930-95, 469-98, 327-2000 to Gene’s Refrigeration
Heating and Air Conditioning, Inc. — Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 537-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2208

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Morgan Water Works Plant Pretreatment and Residuals Project — approve subcontractors —
Contract #68733 per BOC Res. 525-08, 13-09, 22-09, 340-09 — Division of Water
(BOC Res. 536-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2208

Board of Control — Water Division
Morgan Water Works Plant Pretreatment and Residuals Project — approve subcontractors —
Contract #68733 per BOC Res. 525-08, 13-09, 22-09, 340-09 — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 536-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2208

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Deise Avenue, 13600 (Ward 10) — Northern Lakes Management Company, owner and
John Basso, Jr. — appeal withdrawn on 11/30/09 (Cal. 09-195) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Avenue, 7050-7100 (Ward 17) — Alex Abou Chebel, vendor, and
Thahbieh Assad, vendee, and Mike Assad, tenant — appeal heard on
11/30/2009 (Cal. 09-230) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 124th Street, 2783 (Ward 6) — Cleveland Green Homes East PL I, owner —
appeal granted and adopted on 11/30/09 (Cal. 09-223). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 152nd Street, 740 (Ward 10) — City of God Baptist Fellowship, owner —
appeal heard on 11/30/2009 (Cal. 09-228) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fleet Avenue, 5729 (Ward 12) — The David Wolfson Trust, owner — appeal heard
on 11/30/2009 (Cal. 09-225) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, 5604 (Ward 17) — Darwin McLellan, owner — appeal granted
and adopted on 11/30/09 (Cal. 09-220). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard Avenue, 14201 (Ward 1) — Ellard Kinney, owner — appeal heard on 11/30/09
(Cal. 09-149) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 6918 (Ward 17) — GM Realty Company, owner, and Westside
Automotive, Inc., lessee — appeal withdrawn on 11/30/2009 (Cal. 09-226) . . . . . . . . .
Schell Avenue, 2320 (Ward 16) — Tony Kril, owner — appeal heard on 11/30/2009
(Cal. 09-224) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 2070 (Ward 14) — United 25th Building, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 11/30/09 (Cal. 09-217) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2209

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2209
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2210
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2209
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2209
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2210
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2209
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2209
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2209
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2210

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Corby Road, 13507 (Ward 15) — Dwayne W. Johnson, owner — appeal to be heard on 12/14/09
(Cal. 09-238) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Elmwood Avenue, 12615 (Ward 19) — Kindt Collins Company LLC, owner — appeal to be heard
on 12/14/09 (Cal. 09-235) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grapeland Avenue, 14601 (Ward 21) — Camille Urban, owner — appeal to be heard on
12/14/09 (Cal. 09-236) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Valley Road, 3751, (Ward 15) — Hill Diversified Properties, LLC, owner — appeal to
be heard on 12/14/09 (Cal. 09-237) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2226

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2209
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2209
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2209
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2209

December 2, 2009

The City Record

43

Bonds
Cleveland Stadium refunding bonds (O 1717-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Core City refunding bond (O 1718-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Allocating portion of Recovery Zone Bonds for Flats
(O 1756-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — cooperative agreement — Cuy. Co. Port Authority & Flats East
Development LLC — (TIF) (O 1758-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2190
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2194

Building and Housing Department
Demolition/Disposition Initiative — Glenville Development Corp. — agreement
(Ward(s) 8, 9 NCF) (O 1728-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2224

Burke Lakefront Airport
Various Lease agreements for use of Airport — owned space at CHIA & Burke
(O 1544-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2218

City of Cleveland Bids
Collinwood Recreation Center — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties —
Division of Recreation — per Ord. 597-07 — bid due December 23, 2009
(advertised 11/25/2009 and 12/2/2009) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2211
Duct line, street lighting bases and pull boxes — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 597-07 — bid due December
23, 2009 (advertised 11/25/2009 and 12/2/2009). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2211

City Planning Commission
Afro-American Cultural & Historical Society Museum — designate as landmark
(Ward 07) (O 310-96) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 55 St. — (Broadway and Lufkin Ave.) — zoning (O 1083-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 106th Pl. — intention to vacate a portion — Service Department (Ward 06)
(R 1415-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave. & Ford Dr. (NE corner) — Planned Unit Development (PUD) Overlay District —
establish (O 2207-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flats Oxbow Strategies Long Range Development Plan — agreement (Ward 14 NCF)
(O 1762-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Spring Rd. (north), Gino Lane (south) & Jennings Freeway (east) — change the Use and
Area Districts — Semi-Industry District and a ‘B’ Area District (Ward 15) (O 1532-05) . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2211
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2202
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

Cemeteries Division
Amend various sect(s) of Chapter 557 — Relating to cemeteries (O 1659-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206

Clerk of Council
Agreement — Guy Gadomski, CPA (financial consulting & auditing services) (O 1760-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2202

Cleveland Clinic Foundation
East 100th St. and Cedar Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — electrical / teledata cabling
duct banks — Service Department (Ward 06) (O 1050-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2215

Cleveland — Cuyahoga County Port Authority
Economic Development — cooperative agreement — Cuy. & Summit Co. Port Authority —
State of Ohio Treasurer — Flats East Development, LLC (O 1759-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2195

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Amend contract 66946 — Air show — increase the leased premises — Cleveland National Air
Show, Inc. — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for Air show (O 761-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2215
Port Control Dept. — public improvement contract — professional services for rehab. Taxiway
L at CHIA (O 1609-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
Various Lease agreements for use of Airport — owned space at CHIA & Burke (O 1544-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2218

Cleveland Housing Network
Cleveland Green Homes II (residential rental development) (F 1771-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187

Cleveland Metropolitan School District
Property — acquire and sell — Bellaire Puritas Development Corp. (O 557-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

2227

The City Record

44

December 2, 2009

Cleveland Public Power
Lights, decorative post — installation — Utilities Department (O 1751-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2189

Codified Ordinances
Amend various code sections regarding gender identity — Office of Equal Opportunity
(O 1260-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend various sect(s) of Chapter 557 — Relating to cemeteries (O 1659-09) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Big Creek Valley and Cuyahoga River Valley Protective District — new Section 341.022
(O 1136-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enacting new Sect(s) 463.01 to 463.07 & 463.99 — Valet Services (O 1749-09) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise options to renew contracts for the towing and salvaging of motor vehicles
(O 790-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repeal Sect. 135.13 — amend Ord. No. 372-53 — Working Hours for Police Division
(O 1755-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2204
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2188
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2205
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2190

Collective Bargaining Agreements
Approve fact finders for CWA — collective bargaining — Payband 22a & 33 (O 1721-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2222

Communications
Bi-Monthly OEO Compliance Report (Chapter 188) — October 2009 (F 1770-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187
Cleveland Green Homes II (residential rental development) (F 1771-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187

Community Development Department
Cleveland Municipal School District — property — acquire and sell — Bellaire Puritas
Development Corp. (O 557-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 33rd St., Cedar Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Burten, Bell, Carr Development,
Inc. (Ward 05) (O 164-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 49th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Lake Erie Barber College (Ward 05)
(O 615-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 88th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Jeannette Relaford (Ward 05) (O 1457-06) . . . . . . . .
E. 93rd St., 3121 — Land Reutilization Program — Jamal Hanini and Salti Salti (Ward 04)
(O 1178-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 70th St., 2226 — PPN 118-22-060 — Land Reutilization Program — John Truett & E. Marie
Truett (Ward 05) (O 1514-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Ave. — PPN 119-03-037 / 038 / 039 — Land Reutilization Program — Geraldine Laster
and Bobbie C. Laster (Ward 07) (O 1555-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Larnder Ave., 9606 — PPN 005-27-118 — Land Reutilization Program — Joseph Frank Ponikvar,
Jr. (Ward 18) (O 1516-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public improvement contract for environmental clean — up of Lower Woolen Mills
(O 1511-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave. — PPN 108-14-009 — Land Reutilization Program — Rania Najjar (Ward
08) (O 1554-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 37th St., — PPN 007-07-024 / 025 / 026 / 027 / 028 — Land Reutilization Program — Ronald
B. Sarstedt (Ward 14) (O 1532-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 45th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Missionary Church of Christ (Ward 14)
(O 588-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2216
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2217
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2216
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2220
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2214
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

Condolences
Burks, Gussie (R 1778-09) . . . . . .
Collins-Meeks, Edna (R 1780-09)
Martin, John (R 1782-09) . . . . . . .
Thompson, King (R 1779-09). . . .
Tolliver, Stephanie (R 1781-09) .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

2187
2187
2187
2187
2187

Congratulations
Marblestone, Kenneth E. (R 1783-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187

Contracts
Amend contract 66946 — Air show — increase the leased premises — Cleveland National Air
Show, Inc. — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for Air show (O 761-09) . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 1564-09 — Miles Crossing Point Retail Center Project (Ward 02
NCF & NEF) (O 1763-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 1892-05 — Flats East Development, LLC — Economic Development
(Ward 13) (O 1757-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise first option to renew Contract No. 67632 with KS Associates, Inc. (O 1589-09) . . . . . . .
Exercise options to renew contracts for the towing and salvaging of motor vehicles
(O 790-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lights, decorative post — installation — Utilities Department (O 1751-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2228

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2215
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2202
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2194
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2205
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2189

December 2, 2009

The City Record

45

Personal handheld devices — cellular devices — pager equipment — hardware and software
Finance Department (O 1709-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — install diesel emission reduction systems (O 1590-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control Dept. — public improvement — professional services for rehab. Taxiway L at
CHIA (O 1609-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ProTech Security — Security Updates — Water Division (O 1750-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public improvement — environmental clean-up of Lower Woolen Mills (O 1511-09) . . . . . . . . . .
Public Utilities — Exercise option to renew Contract No. 68584 — Kronos Incorporated
(O 1509-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchase contracts for rehab for terminal ticketing lobby — public improvement —
professional consultants (O 1588-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchase contracts for rehab. of terminal building exterior — public improvement —
professional consultants (O 1587-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — Motorola (equipment & maintenance) (O 1539-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — replace water mains (O 1538-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

—
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2189
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2216
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2216
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2205
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2218
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2217

Consumer Affairs Department
Economic Security Project for Cleveland Seniors — Grants — various agencies
(O 1549-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2220

Convention Center
Appropriations — ($800,000) — Convention Center Funds (O 1723-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

County Auditor
Tax Advances, Year 2010 — request County Auditor — City Treasury — Finance
Department (R 1672-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

Cuyahoga County Port Authority
Economic Development — cooperative agreement — Flats East Development LLC — (TIF)
(O 1758-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2194

Economic Development Department
Allocating portion of Recovery Zone Bonds for Flats (O 1756-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 1564-09 — Miles Crossing Point Retail Center Project (Ward 02
NCF & NEF) (O 1763-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 1892-05 — Flats East Development, LLC — contract (Ward 13)
(O 1757-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cooperative agreement — Cuy. Co. Port Authority & Flats East Development LLC — (TIF)
(O 1758-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cooperative agreement — Cuy. & Summit Co. Port Authority — State of Ohio Treasurer — Flats
East Development, LLC (O 1759-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dunkin Donuts Development Project — agreement (Ward 01 NCF) (O 1729-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2190
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2202
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2194
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2194
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2195
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2224

Encroachments
East 100th St. and Cedar Ave. — right-of-way — electrical / teledata cabling duct banks —
Cleveland Clinic Foundation — Service Department (Ward 06) (O 1050-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2215

Enterprise Funds
Transfer ($3,024,200) within various divisions of the General Fund — ($500,000) within
the Special Revenue Fund — ($45,000) within the Enterprise Fund (O 1720-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

Fees
Professional consultants to assess City fees (O 1658-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206

Finance Department
Appropriations — ($800,000) — Convention Center Funds (O 1723-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Appropriations — Temporary — January 1, 2010 (O 1722-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Stadium refunding bonds (O 1717-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Core City refunding bond (O 1718-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financial statement assessment, 2009 — Ohio State Auditor — Taxation Division —
Water Division (O 1748-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Master Lease for various types of vehicles & apparatus — Various Divisions in the Depts.
of Public Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Public
Safety (O 1620-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2229

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

2207
2207
2206
2207

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221

The City Record

46

December 2, 2009

Personal handheld devices — cellular devices — pager equipment — hardware and software
(O 1709-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professional consultants to assess City fees (O 1658-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tax Advances, Year 2010 — request County Auditor — City Treasury (R 1672-09) . . . . . . . . . . .
Transfer ($3,024,200) within various divisions of the General Fund — ($500,000) within
the Special Revenue Fund — ($45,000) within the Enterprise Fund (O 1720-09) . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

Fire Division
MOU NASA & CFD — design, development, and testing of a robotics platform & testbed in
a realistic HAZMAT environment (O 1510-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2205

Flats District
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 1892-05 — Flats East Development, LLC — contract —
Economic Development (Ward 13) (O 1757-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Allocating portion of Recovery Zone Bonds for Flats (O 1756-09). . . . .
Economic Development — cooperative agreement — Cuy. Co. Port Authority & Flats East
Development LLC — (TIF) (O 1758-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — cooperative agreement — Cuy. & Summit Co. Port Authority — State
of Ohio Treasurer — Flats East Development, LLC (O 1759-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2194
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2190
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2194
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2195

Flats Oxbow Association
Flats Oxbow Strategies Long Range Development Plan — agreement — City Planning Commission
(Ward 14 NCF) (O 1762-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2202

General Funds
Transfer ($3,024,200) within various divisions of the General Fund — ($500,000) within
the Special Revenue Fund — ($45,000) within the Enterprise Fund (O 1720-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

Glenville Development Corporation
Demolition/Disposition Initiative — agreement — Building and Housing Dept.
(Ward(s) 8, 9 NCF) (O 1728-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2224

Grants
After School Snack Program — Ohio Department of Education (O 1592-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Security Project for Cleveland Seniors — various agencies (O 1549-09) . . . . . . . . . .
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2010 — various agencies — Ohio Department of Health
(O 1547-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Immunization Action Plan Program, 2010 — Cuyahoga County Board of Health
(O 1546-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
STD Control Prevention Program, 2010 — Ohio Department of Health (O 1752-09) . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2220
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2219
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2219
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2189

Health Department
Economic Security Project for Cleveland Seniors — Grants — various agencies (O 1549-09) . . .
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2010 — various agencies — Grants — Ohio Department of
Health (O 1547-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Immunization Action Plan Program, 2010 — Cuyahoga County Board of Health — Grants
(O 1546-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
STD Control Prevention Program, 2010 — Grants — Ohio Department of Health
(O 1752-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2220
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2219
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2219
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2189

Information System Services Division
Personal handheld devices — cellular devices — pager equipment — hardware and software —
Finance Department (O 1709-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206

Landmark Commission
Afro-American Cultural & Historical Society Museum — designate as landmark — City Planning
Commission (Ward 07) (O 310-96) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
Rescinding the designation — Newton Avenue Historic Landmark District
(O 1446-96) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

Land Reutilization Program
E.
E.
E.
E.

33rd St., Cedar Ave. — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. (Ward 05) (O 164-06) .
49th St. — Lake Erie Barber College (Ward 05) (O 615-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
88th St. — Jeannette Relaford (Ward 05) (O 1457-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
93rd St., 3121 — Jamal Hanini and Salti Salti (Ward 04) (O 1178-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2230

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

2207
2207
2207
2207

December 2, 2009

The City Record

East 70th St., 2226 — PPN 118-22-060 — John Truett & E. Marie Truett (Ward 05)
(O 1514-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Ave. — PPN 119-03-037 / 038 / 039 — Geraldine Laster and Bobbie C. Laster
(Ward 07)(O 1555-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Larnder Ave., 9606 — PPN 005-27-118 — Joseph Frank Ponikvar, Jr. (Ward 18)
(O 1516-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave. — PPN 108-14-009 — Rania Najjar (Ward 08) (O 1554-09) . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 37th St. — PPN 007-07-024 / 025 / 026 / 027 / 028 — Ronald B. Sarstedt (Ward 14)
(O 1532-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 45th St. — Missionary Church of Christ (Ward 14) (O 588-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

47
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2216
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2217
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2220
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2214
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

Lease
Amend contract 66946 — Air show — increase the leased premises — Cleveland National Air
Show, Inc. — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for Air show (O 761-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2215

Lease Agreement
Various Lease agreements for use of Airport — owned space at CHIA & Burke
(O 1544-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2218

Liquor Permits
Brookpark Rd., 2168 (Patio) — transfer of ownership and location application (Ward 16)
(F 1775-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buckeye Rd., 11132 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1136-09 (Ward 04)
(R 1766-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buckeye Rd., 8805 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1134-09 (Ward 04)
(R 1733-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Ave., 3337 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1130-09 — (Ward 05)
(R 1731-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 116th St., 3019 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1138-09 (Ward 04)
(R 1734-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 140th St., 3258 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 04) (R 1735-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Griffing Ave., 12914 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 955-09 (Ward 04)
(R 1736-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Ave., 14510 — stock transfer application (Ward 03) (F 1772-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Ave., 9203 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1139-09 (Ward 04)
(R 1767-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave., 11609 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1153-09 (Ward 02)
(R 1769-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pearl Rd., 4126 — objection to issuance (Ward 15) (R 1764-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Ave., 14606 — new application (Ward 20) (F 1776-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ridge Rd., 3837 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 1617-09 — (Ward 16)
(R 1737-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ridge Rd., 3837 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res. 1395-09
(Ward 16) (R 1768-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 11601-05 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 09) (R 1732-09). . . . . . . . . . .
The Pub, Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Space Mt. 210 — new application
(Ward 20) (F 1777-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th St., 1303 (1st. fl. & bsmt.) — stock transfer application (Ward 13) (F 1774-09) . . . . . . .
Woodland Ave., 6002 — transfer of ownership and location application (Ward 05) (F 1773-09) .
Woodland Ave., 8800 (lower level) — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 956-09
(Ward 04) (R 1765-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2203
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2212
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2212
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2213
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2213
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2213
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2203
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2204
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2202
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2214
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2203
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2212
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2203

Memoranda of Understanding
MOU NASA & CFD — design, development, and testing of a robotics platform & testbed in a
realistic HAZMAT environment (O 1510-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2205

Museums
Afro-American Cultural & Historical Society Museum — designate as landmark — City Planning
Commission (Ward 07) (O 310-96) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

NASA
MOU NASA & CFD — design, development, and testing of a robotics platform & testbed in a
realistic HAZMAT environment (O 1510-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2205

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 1564-09 — Miles Crossing Point Retail Center Project (Ward 02
NCF & NEF) (O 1763-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2202

2231

The City Record

48

December 2, 2009

Ohio Department of Education
After School Snack Program — Grant (O 1592-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206

Ohio Department of Public Health
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2010 — various agencies — Grants (O 1547-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2219
STD Control Prevention Program, 2010 — Grants (O 1752-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2189

Office of Equal Opportunity
Amend various code sections regarding gender identity — Office of Equal Opportunity
(O 1260-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2204
Bi-Monthly OEO Compliance Report (Chapter 188) — October 2009 (F 1770-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
After School Snack Program — Grant — Ohio Department of Education (O 1592-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
Appropriations — ($800,000) — Convention Center Funds (O 1723-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
Master Lease for various types of vehicles & apparatus — Various Divisions in the Depts.
of Public Service and Public Safety (O 1620-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221

Peddlers
Likos, Nikolaos, Temporary Sidewalk Occupancy Permit — East 105th St. & Chester Ave.
(Ward 08) (O 1761-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2202

Permits
Likos, Nikolaos, Temporary Sidewalk Occupancy Permit — East 105th St. & Chester Ave.
(Ward 08) (O 1761-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2202

Personnel Department
Amend Sect. 45 of Ord. No. 947-08 — Payband Sect. 45 (Building & Construction Trades
Council) (O 1753-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2197
Amend Sect. 8 of Ord. No. 947-08 — Sect. 8 (International Local 100, AFSCME Ohio Council
8 AFL — CIO) (O 1754-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2197
Approved fact finders for CWA — collective bargaining — Payband 22a & 33 (O 1721-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2222

Police Division
Repeal Sect. 135.13 — amend Ord. No. 372-53 — Working Hours for Police Division
(O 1755-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2190

Port Control Department
Amend contract 66946 — Air show — increase the leased premises — Cleveland National
Show, Inc. — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for Air show (O 761-09) . . . . .
Contracts — install diesel emission reduction systems (O 1590-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise first option to renew Contract No. 67632 with KS Associates, Inc. (O 1589-09) . . .
Public improvement contract — professional services for rehab. Taxiway L at CHIA
(O 1609-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchase contracts for rehab for terminal ticketing lobby — public improvement —
professional consultants (O 1588-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchase contracts for rehab. of terminal building exterior — public improvement professional consultants (O 1587-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Various Lease agreements for use of Airport — owned space at CHIA & Burke
(O 1544-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Air
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2215
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2205
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2218

Professional Service
Exercise first option to renew Contract No. 67632 with KS Associates, Inc.
(O 1589-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control Dept. — public improvement contract — professional services
for rehab. Taxiway L at CHIA (O 1609-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professional consultants to assess City fees (O 1658-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ProTech Security — Contracts — Security Updates — Water Division (O 1750-09) . .
Purchase contracts for rehab for terminal ticketing lobby — public improvement
(O 1588-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchase contracts for rehab. of terminal building exterior — public improvement
(O 1587-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — design a new pump station in the City of Aurora
(O 1540-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2232

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2189
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2205
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2218

December 2, 2009

The City Record

49

Public Improvement
Contract for environmental clean-up of Lower Woolen Mills (O 1511-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control Dept. — contract — professional services for rehab. Taxiway L at CHIA
(O 1609-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchase contracts for rehab for terminal ticketing lobby — professional consultants
(O 1588-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchase contracts for rehab. of terminal building exterior — professional consultants
(O 1587-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2216
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2205

Public Utilities Department
Contracts — Motorola (equipment & maintenance) (O 1539-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contracts to replace water mains (O 1538-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 68584 — Kronos Incorporated (O 1509-09) . . . .
Lights, decorative post — installation (O 1751-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professional service to design a new pump station in the City of Aurora (O 1540-09).
ProTech Security — Contracts — Security Updates — Water Division (O 1750-09) . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

2218
2217
2216
2189
2218
2189

Resolution of Support
Support Governor Strickland’s plan to balance the budget (R 1730-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2212

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Support Governor Strickland’s plan to balance the budget (R 1730-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2212

Safety Department
Exercise options to renew contracts for the towing and salvaging of motor vehicles
(O 790-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Master Lease for various types of vehicles & apparatus — Various Divisions in the Depts.
of Public Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties (O 1620-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
MOU NASA & CFD — design, development, and testing of a robotics platform & testbed in a
realistic HAZMAT environment (O 1510-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repeal Sect. 135.13 — amend Ord. No. 372-53 — Working Hours for Police Division (O 1755-09) .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2205
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2205
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2190

Salaries
Amend Sect. 45 of Ord. No. 947-08 — Payband Sect. 45 (Building & Construction Trades
Council) (O 1753-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2197
Amend Sect. 8 of Ord. No. 947-08 — Sect. 8 (International Local 100, AFSCME Ohio Council
8 AFL — CIO) (O 1754-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2197
Approve fact finders for CWA — collective bargaining — Payband 22a & 33 (O 1721-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2222

State Auditor
Financial statement assessment, 2009 — Finance Department — Taxation Division —
Water Division (O 1748-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

State of Ohio
Economic Development — cooperative agreement — Cuy. & Summit Co. Port Authority — State
of Ohio Treasurer — Flats East Development, LLC (O 1759-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2195

Service Department
East 100th St. and Cedar Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — electrical / teledata cabling
duct banks — Cleveland Clinic Foundation (Ward 06) (O 1050-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2215
East 106th Pl. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — (Ward
06) (R 1415-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2211
Master Lease for various types of vehicles & apparatus — Various Divisions in the Depts.
of Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Public Safety (O 1620-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221

Special Revenue Funds
Transfer ($3,024,200) within various divisions of the General Fund — ($500,000) within
the Special Revenue Fund — ($45,000) within the Enterprise Fund (O 1720-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

Stadium
Cleveland Stadium refunding bonds (O 1717-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2206

2233

The City Record

50

December 2, 2009

Street Vacation
East 106th Pl. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service
Department (Ward 06) (R 1415-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2211

Tabled Legislation
Afro-American Cultural & Historial Society Museum — designate as landmark — City Planning
Commission (Ward 07) (O 310-96) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Big Creek Valley and Cuyahoga River Valley Protective District — new Section 341.022
(O 1136-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Municipal School District — property — acquire and sell — Bellaire Puritas
Development Corp. (O 557-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 33rd St., Cedar Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Burten, Bell, Carr Development,
Inc. (Ward 05) (O 164-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 49th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Lake Erie Barber College (Ward 05)
(O 615-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 55 St. — (Broadway and Lufkin Ave.) — zoning (O 1083-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 88th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Jeannette Relaford (Ward 05) (O 1457-06) . . . . . . . .
E. 93rd St., 3121 — Land Reutilization Program — Jamal Hanini and Salti Salti (Ward 04)
(O 1178-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave. & Ford Dr. (NE corner) — Planned Unit Development (PUD) Overlay District —
establish (O 2207-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rescinding the designation — Newton Avenue Historic Landmark District (O 1446-96) . . . . . . . . .
Spring Rd. (north), Gino Lane (south) & Jennings Freeway (east) — change the Use and Area
Districts — Semi-Industry District and a ‘B’ Area District (Ward 15) (O 1532-05). . . . . . . . . . .
W. 45th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Missionary Church of Christ (Ward 14)
(O 588-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

Taxation Division
Financial statement assessment, 2009 — Ohio State Auditor — Finance Department — Water
Division (O 1748-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

Towing
Exercise options to renew contracts for the towing and salvaging of motor vehicles
(O 790-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2205

Unions
Amend Sect. 8 of Ord. No. 947-08 — Sect. 8 (International Local 100, AFSCME Ohio Council
8 AFL — CIO) (O 1754-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2197

University Circle
Euclid Ave. & Ford Dr. (NE corner) — Planned Unit Development (PUD) Overlay District —
establish (O 2207-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

Vehicles
Exercise options to renew contracts for the towing and salvaging of motor vehicles
(O 790-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2205

Ward 1
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1778-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187
Dunkin Donuts Development Project — agreement — Economic Development (Ward 01 NCF)
(O 1729-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2224

Ward 2
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 1564-09 — Miles Crossing Point Retail Center Project (Ward 02
NCF & NEF) (O 1763-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2202
Miles Ave., 11609 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1153-09 — liquor permit
(R 1769-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2204

Ward 3
Kinsman Ave., 14510 — stock transfer application — liquor permit (F 1772-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187
Tolliver, Stephanie — condolence (R 1781-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187

2234

December 2, 2009

The City Record

51

Ward 4
Buckeye Rd., 11132 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1136-09 — liquor permit
(R 1766-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buckeye Rd., 8805 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1134-09 — liquor permit
(R 1733-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 93rd St., 3121 — Land Reutilization Program — Jamal Hanini and Salti Salti
(O 1178-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 116th St., 3019 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1138-09 — liquor permit
(R 1734-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 140th St., 3258 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1735-09). . . . . . . .
Griffing Ave., 12914 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 955-09 — liquor permit
(R 1736-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Ave., 9203 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1139-09 — liquor permit
(R 1767-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Martin, John — condolence (R 1782-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodland Ave., 8800 (lower level) — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 956-09 —
liquor permit (R 1765-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2203
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2212
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2213
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2213
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2213
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2203
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2203

Ward 5
Central Ave., 3337 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1130-09 — liquor permit
(R 1731-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 33rd St., Cedar Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Burten, Bell, Carr Development,
Inc. (O 164-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 49th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Lake Erie Barber College (Ward 05) (O 615-06) . .
E. 88th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Jeannette Relaford (O 1457-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 70th St., 2226 — PPN 118-22-060 — Land Reutilization Program — John Truett & E. Marie
Truett (O 1514-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodland Ave., 6002 — transfer of ownership and location application — liquor permit
(F 1773-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2212
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2216
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187

Ward 6
East 100th St. and Cedar Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — electrical / teledata cabling
duct banks — Cleveland Clinic Foundation — Service Department (O 1050-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2215
East 106th Pl. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service
Department (R 1415-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2211
Tolliver, Stephanie — condolence (R 1781-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187

Ward 7
Afro-American Cultural & Historical Society Museum — designate as landmark — City Planning
Commission (O 310-96). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
Hough Ave. — PPN 119-03-037 / 038 / 039 — Land Reutilization Program — Geraldine Laster
and Bobbie C. Laster (O 1555-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2221
Tolliver, Stephanie — condolence (R 1781-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187

Ward 8
Demolition/Disposition Initiative — Glenville Development Corp. — agreement — Building
and Housing Dept. (Ward(s) 8, 9 NCF) (O 1728-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Likos, Nikolaos, Temporary Sidewalk Occupancy Permit — East 105th St. & Chester Ave.
(O 1761-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave. — PPN 108-14-009 — Land Reutilization Program — Rania Najjar
(O 1554-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thompson, King — condolence (R 1779-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2224
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2202
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2220
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187

Ward 9
Demolition/Disposition Initiative — Glenville Development Corp. — agreement — Building
and Housing Dept. (Ward(s) 8, 9 NCF) (O 1728-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2224
Euclid Ave. & Ford Dr. (NE corner) — Planned Unit Development (PUD) Overlay District —
establish (O.2207-04) 2207 (O 2207-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
St. Clair Ave., 11601-05 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1732-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2212

Ward 10
Collins-Meeks, Edna — condolence (R 1780-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187

Ward 12
E. 55 St. — (Broadway and Lufkin Ave.) — zoning (O 1083-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

2235

The City Record

52

December 2, 2009

Ward 13
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 1892-05 — Flats East Development, LLC — contract —
Economic Development (O 1757-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Allocating portion of Recovery Zone Bonds for Flats
(O 1756-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — cooperative agreement — Cuy. Co. Port Authority & Flats East
Development LLC — (TIF) (O 1758-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — cooperative agreement — Cuy. & Summit Co. Port Authority —
State of Ohio Treasurer — Flats East Development, LLC (O 1759-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th St., 1303 (1st. fl. & bsmt.) — stock transfer application — liquor permit
(F 1774-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2194
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2190
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2194
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2195
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187

Ward 14
W. 37th St. — PPN 007-07-024 / 025 / 026 / 027 / 028 — Land Reutilization Program — Ronald
B. Sarstedt (O 1532-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2214
W. 45th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Missionary Church of Christ (O 588-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

Ward 15
Pearl Rd., 4126 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 1764-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2202
Spring Rd. (north), Gino Lane (south) & Jennings Freeway (east) — change the Use and Area
Districts — Semi-Industry District and a ‘B’ Area District (O 1532-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

Ward 16
Brookpark Rd., 2168 (Patio) — transfer of ownership and location application —
liquor permit (F 1775-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187
Ridge Rd., 3837 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 1617-09 — liquor permit
(R 1737-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2214
Ridge Rd., 3837 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res. 1395-09 —
liquor permit (R 1768-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2203

Ward 18
Larnder Ave., 9606 — PPN 005-27-118 — Land Reutilization Program — Joseph Frank Ponikvar,
Jr. (O 1516-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2217

Ward 20
Cleveland Municipal School District — property — acquire and sell — Bellaire Puritas
Development Corp. (O 557-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marblestone, Kenneth E. — congratulations (R 1783-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Ave., 14606 — new application — liquor permit (F 1776-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Pub, Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Space Mt. 210 — new application —
liquor permit (F 1777-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2187

Water Division
Financial statement assessment, 2009 — Ohio State Auditor — Finance Department —
Taxation Division (O 1748-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
ProTech Security — Contracts — Security Updates (O 1750-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2189

Water Mains
Utilities Department — Contracts to replace water mains (O 1538-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2217

Zoning
E. 55 St. — (Broadway and Lufkin Ave.) (O 1083-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207
Spring Rd. (north), Gino Lane (south) & Jennings Freeway (east) — change the
Use and Area Districts — Semi-Industry District and a ‘B’ Area District (Ward 15)
(O 1532-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2207

2236

