The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

November the Eighteenth, Two Thousand and Nine

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Terrell H. Pruitt
Nathaniel K. Wilkes
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Mamie J. Mitchell
TJ Dow
Shari L. Cloud
Kevin Conwell
Eugene R. Miller
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Joe Cimperman
Joseph Santiago
Brian J. Cummins
Kevin J. Kelley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
18
18
20
25
26
31
31
31
32
54
54

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..................................................3877 East 189th Street
44122
Nathaniel K. Wilkes ...........................................8410 Vineyard Avenue
44105
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Shari L. Cloud ......................................................1152 East 98th Street
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Joe Cimperman..............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Joseph Santiago ...................................................3169 West 14th Street
44109
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Andrew Watterson, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker, Interim Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – _________, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNELAND HUMAN RESOURCES – Trudy Hutchinson, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Omayra G. Feliciano, Acting Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James
Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Joe Cimperman.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council
Member ____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair; Laura
M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey, Allan
Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
12B
Judge Emanuella Groves
13A
Judge Michelle D. Earley
12A
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
14B
14C
Judge Anita Laster Mays
Judge Lauren C. Moore
14A
13D
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr.
13B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
Judge Michael John Ryan
12C
15C
Judge Angela R. Stokes
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2009

Vol. 96

No. 5006

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2009
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2006-2009
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties and Recreation Committee:
Johnson, Chair; Wilkes, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek, Pruitt.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cleveland,
Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Conwell, Mitchell, Reed, Santiago.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Brady, Chair; Pruitt, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Johnson,
Polensek,
Reed,
Santiago,
Wilkes.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Dow, Chair; Keane, Vice Chair;
Cleveland, Cloud, Johnson, Reed,
Wilkes.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland,
Conwell, Kelley, Miller, Mitchell,
Polensek, Westbrook.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Brady,
Cloud, Cummins, Miller, Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee:
Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice Chair;
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Johnson,
Mitchell.

10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Cummins, Miller, Mitchell,
Polensek, Pruitt, Santiago, Zone.

November 16, 2009
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice
Chair; Cummins, Keane, Kelley,
Polensek,
Santiago,
Westbrook,
Wilkes.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chair, Westbrook, Vice Chair, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Reed, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Kelley, Keane, Polensek.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Cloud,
Kelley, Mitchell, Santiago, Sweeney, Wilkes.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Cleveland,
Chair;
Kelley,
Miller,
Sweeney, Westbrook.

Sandra Franklin
First Assistant Clerk
Cleveland City Council
601 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Dear Mrs. Franklin:
You are requested by Cleveland
City Council, without objection, to
serve as Clerk of Council Pro Tempore for the purposes of the November 16, 2009 Council meeting, due to
the absence of Patricia J. Britt,
Clerk of Council.
Your assistance is appreciated.
Sincerely,
Martin J. Sweeney
Council President
Received.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS

FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL

CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, November 16, 2009
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Conwell, Cummins, Dow,
Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller, Mitchell,
Polensek, Pruitt, Reed, Santiago,
Sweeney, Westbrook, Wilkes and
Zone.
Also present were Ken Silliman,
Chief of Staff; Monyka S. Price,
Chief of Education; Maureen Harper,
Chief of Communications; Andrea V.
Taylor, Press Secretary; Andrew
Watterson, Chief of Sustainability;
and Directors Triozzi, Dumas, Smith,
Wasik, Carroll, Cox, Rybka, Hutchinson, Fumich, Griffin, Brown; Interim
Directors Withers and Walker; Acting Director Feliciano.

File No. 1692-09.
Re: #4273213 — D1, D2X, D3, D3A
Transfer of Location Application —
Jeffarnos Enterprises Limited, 10427
Clifton Boulevard. (Ward 18). Received.
File No. 1693-09.
Re: #8772814 — C1, C2 Stock
Transfer Application — T and W
Mart, Inc., 15239 Triskett Road.
(Ward 21). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1694-09 — Benjamin C.
Dawson, Jr.
Res. No. 1695-09—Gussie Burks.
Res. No. 1696-09—Brandon Young.
Res. No. 1697-09—John T. Patton.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS

Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76
prayer was offered by Imam Abbas
of First Cleveland Mosque, 13940
Corlett Avenue, located in Ward 3.
Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Kelley, Chair;
Keane, Vice Chair; Cleveland, Cloud,
Dow, Mitchell, Westbrook.

COMMUNICATION
File No. 1691-09.

On the motion of Council Member
Zone, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Mitchell.

2061

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1698-09—Alexandra Ella
Soltesz.
Res. No. 1699-09—Magnificat Cross
Country Team.
Res. No. 1700-09—Michael A. Copeland.
Res. No. 1701-09—South West Citizens Area Council.

The City Record

4
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1702-09 — R.J. Boland’s
Restaurant & American Saloon.
Res. No. 1703-09—“Cleveland Culinary Celebration Week & The Fabulous Food Show”.
Res. No. 1704-09—Cuyahoga County Soldiers’ & Sailors’ Monument —
Monumental Access Day.
Res. No. 1705-09 — 32nd Degree
Masons of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, Valley of Cleveland.
Res. No. 1706-09 — Rev. Aaron L.
Phillips.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1707-09—David C. Sweet.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1657-09.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Member Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 551.022 relating to solid
waste collection fee.
Whereas, the collection and disposal of garbage and refuse in the
City is a matter which affects the
public health, welfare and safety of
all City residents; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 551.022 to read as follows:
Section 551.022
Solid Waste Collection Fee
(a) All residential properties shall
be charged the following monthly
rates to defray the cost of collection
and disposal of solid waste beginning on Jan 1st of each year:
2010
2011
2012
2013

$9.25 per unit
$9.50 per unit
$9.75 per unit
$10.00 per unit

(b) The fee shall be included on
the property owner’s water bill and
shall
be
due
when
the
water
charges are due.
(c) As used in this section:
(1) “residential property” means
real property that is improved by a
building or other structure that has
one to four dwelling units.
(2) “dwelling unit” means a room
or group of rooms located within a
dwelling structure and forming a
single habitable unit with living,
sleeping, cooking, eating and sanitary facilities used or intended to be
used by one family.

(3) “dwelling structure” means a
building
or
structure
used
or
designed or intended to be used, all
or in part, for residential purposes.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committees on Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1658-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to employ one or more professional consultants to assess City fees charged
for City services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to assess
City fees charged for City services.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Finance
from a list of qualified consultants
available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Finance
for the purpose of compiling a list.
The compensation to be paid for the
services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Finance, and certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 01-011701632000, Request No. 164806.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1659-09.
By Council Members Dow and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
various sections of Chapter 557, as
enacted and amended by various
ordinances, relating to cemeteries;
and to repeal Section 557.99, as
amended by Ordinance No. 63410-A,
passed September 22, 1924, relating
to penalties.

2062

November 18, 2009
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 557.03, 557.04, 557.06, and
557.07, as enacted by Ordinance No.
81865, passed April 2, 1928,
Section 557.08, as amended by
Ordinance No. 98793, passed April 20,
1933,
Section 557.09, as enacted by Ordinance No. 81865, passed April 2, 1928,
Section 557.11, as amended by
Ordinance No. 98793, passed April 20,
1933,
Sections
557.12,
557.13,
557.14,
557.15, 557.18 and 557.19, as enacted
by Ordinance No. 81865, passed April
2, 1928,
Section 557.20, as amended by
Ordinance No. 95202, passed July 27,
1931,
Sections 557.21 and 557.22, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 81865,
passed April 2, 1928,
Section 557.23, as amended by
Ordinance No. 98793, passed April 20,
1933,
Sections 557.25, 557.26, and 557.27,
as enacted by Ordinance No. 81865,
passed April 2, 1928,
Section 557.28, as amended by
Ordinance No. 98793, passed April 20,
1933,
Sections 557.31, 557.33, and 557.34,
as enacted by Ordinance No. 81865,
passed April 2, 1928, and
Sections 557.35 and 557.36, as
amended by Ordinance No. 84157,
passed November 12, 1928,
are amended to read as follows:
Section 557.03 Designation of Burial Areas
The Commissioner of Park Maintenance and Properties shall have
power to designate areas within
which headstones, monuments and
other structures may be erected, and
shall have power to control and regulate the erection thereof in or upon
cemetery lots. No headstone, monument or other structure shall be so
erected unless approved by him.
Section 557.04 Hours
The Commissioner of Park Maintenance and Properties shall by general rule determine at what hours
and for what purposes the cemeteries shall be open to pedestrians and
to vehicles.
Section 557.06 Plat Required; Contents; Approval
The Commissioner of Park Maintenance and Properties shall prepare
a plat of every cemetery owned or
established by the City. Such plat
shall show all drives, walks or other
thoroughfares; all sewers, drains or
watercourses; all lots reserved for
buildings necessary in the administration of such cemetery; all areas
reserved as parks or open spaces; all
burial lots; all areas reserved for
future platting. The Commissioner
may, with the approval of the directors of the departments concerned,
requisition the services of any office
or division which may be needed in
the preparation of such plat. In

The City Record

November 18, 2009
every such case the value of such
services shall be paid from the
Cemetery Operating Fund to the
General Fund. Such plat shall be
subject to the approval of the Platting Commissioner as to all drains
and sewers shown thereon, and subject to the approval of the Director
of Parks, Recreation and Properties
in all respects. When so approved it
shall be filed as public record in the
office of the Commissioner, subject
to alterations, amendment, supplement or supersession only by a plat
similarly prepared and approved
which shall specifically state the
plat or particular items of a particular plat intended to be altered,
amended, supplemented or superseded. No interment shall be permitted except in a burial lot or site
shown as such upon the plat herein
required.
Section 557.07

Lot Prices

Prices at which cemetery lots, or
parts thereof, may be sold shall be
fixed by the Commissioner of Park
Maintenance and Properties, at the
time of platting any cemetery or
part of any cemetery hereinafter
acquired by the City, or not heretofore platted. The prices so fixed for
all the lots shown on any plat shall
be included in a single schedule,
which shall clearly identify each lot
shown on such plat, and the price
thereof. No schedule or amendment
thereto shall be valid until the
approval of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties and the
Director of Finance are endorsed
thereon, and until it is filed as a
public record in the office of the
Commissioner. Whenever any prices
so fixed are to be changed, it shall
be done only by amending such
schedule, or by adopting a new
schedule, which shall supersede all
prior schedules applicable to such
plat.
Section 557.08 Items Determining
Lot Prices
The price of each lot shall be the
sum of three items determined as
provided in Sections 557.09 to 557.11:
(a) The land cost, in which term
is included the cost to the City of
the land and general improvements
represented by such lot or site;
(b) The endowment cost, being
the contribution required to be made
to the Cleveland City Cemetery
Endowment Fund; and
(c) The operation cost, being the
amount required for the care and
upkeep of the lot, as shall be determined by the Commissioner of Park
Maintenance and Properties, and
which sum shall be the balance
remaining after deductions of divisions (a) and (b) of this section
from the selling price of each lot.
The Commissioner of Parks Maintenance and Properties may amend
this cost as the Commissioner deems
necessary. Each such item and the
total price shall be shown on the
schedule required by Section 557.07.
Section 557.09 Lot Prices on Cemeteries Hereafter Acquired
In the case of cemeteries hereafter acquired, the Commissioner of
Park Maintenance and Properties
shall determine an amount which

shall be the sum of the amounts
paid for the entire tract acquired for
cemetery purposes, plus an amount
determined to be required for general improvements of whatever character, plus any amounts to be paid
as interest on bonds or other obligations of the City issued to pay for
the acquisition or improvement of
such cemetery. The sum so determined shall be divided into as many
portions as there are lots laid out on
such plat, and each portion shall be
determined to be the land cost of
some particular lot; provided, that
when such tract is not all platted at
once, only a proper proportion of the
sum determined as provided shall be
apportioned to the lots platted at
any one time. In determining the
portion of land cost to be fixed upon
any one lot, consideration shall be
taken of area, location and any
other factors affecting the relative
value of the several lots.
Section 557.11 Endowment Cost
The Director of Finance shall
declare the amount of the endowment cost, which amount shall be
held in a permanent fund of the
cemetery known as the Cleveland
City Cemetery Endowment Fund.
The
Director
may
change
this
amount as deemed necessary by the
Director.
Section 557.12 Sale of Lots or Burial Sites
When the plat and schedule provided for in Sections 557.06 and
557.07 have been approved and filed,
the Commissioner of Park Maintenance and Properties shall have
power on behalf of the City to sell
lots, parts of lots or burial sites, at
the respective prices shown in such
schedule. No burial lot or site shall
be sold unless it is platted, nor at
any price not shown on such schedule.
Section 557.13
Purchase of Lots
on Deferred Payments
The Commissioner of Park Maintenance and Properties may at his
discretion accept an initial payment
on the price of such lot in an
amount not less than half the total
price, nor in any case less than the
land cost apportioned to such lot.
Payment of the remainder of such
price shall be secured by such
agreement as the Commissioner,
with the approval of the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
deems reasonable. Such agreement
shall be in form prescribed and
approved by the Director of Law,
and shall require the payment to the
City for the benefit of the Cemetery
Operating Fund of interest at the
rate of six percent per annum upon
the deferred portion of such price,
and for the reduction from time to
time of such deferred portion by
payments not less frequent than
semi-annually, nor shall the payment of any portion be deferred
longer than five years. The entire
amount unpaid shall become due
and payable before any interment is
permitted in such lot, but such payment may be waived, and the agreement continued upon terms approved by the Directors named in
this section.

2063

5
Section 557.14 Certificate of Purchase Issued after Payment in Full
No certificate of purchase for any
cemetery lot shall be issued until
the price therefor is paid in full.
Whenever any deferred payment on
such price is in default for more
than thirty days, the entire amount
unpaid shall at once become due,
and unless the same is paid forthwith, the Commissioner of Park
Maintenance and Properties shall
cancel the agreement and tender to
the purchaser a certificate of purchase for so many burial sites therein as the Commissioner shall determine to have been paid for in full.
Section 557.15 Transfer or Assignment of Lots
The person to whom a certificate
of purchase as an agreement to purchase has been issued or the successor in interest of such person,
may transfer or assign such certificate or agreement, as to the whole
or any portion of the lot described
therein, subject in every case to the
approval and consent of the Commissioner of Park Maintenance and
Properties, which shall be recited in
and endorsed upon the instrument
evidencing such transfer, in form
prescribed by the Director of Law,
and no such transfer or assignment
shall be valid unless so endorsed
and unless approved by the Director.
Section 557.18
Cleveland City
Cemetery Endowment Fund
That portion of the price of any
cemetery lot which is designated as
the endowment cost shall upon its
receipt be paid forthwith into the
principal account of a perpetual
trust fund, hereby established and
designated as the Cleveland City
Cemetery Endowment Fund. The
principal of such Fund shall be forever inviolate; it shall be invested
by the Director of Finance, or by his
successor designated for such purpose by ordinance, in securities in
which sinking funds or municipal
trust
funds
are
authorized
by
statute or ordinance to be invested.
Any portions at any time uninvested shall be kept on deposit, at interest, in regular City depositaries. The
earnings from the Cleveland City
Cemetery Endowment Fund shall be
used to defray the cost of maintaining and caring for the cemeteries, including any common structures, any structures erected on lots
or burial sites, the drives, walks,
and general improvements to the
cemeteries.
Section 557.19
Contributions to
Fund by Owners of Lots Previously
Sold
The City will at all times accept
contributions to the Cleveland City
Cemetery
Endowment
Fund
in
respect of any lot previously sold.
Section 557.20
Annual Payments
from Trust Funds
In addition to the endowment
funds, the City is authorized to
receive from trustees, executors or
other custodians of trust funds
under wills or agreements providing
for the upkeep of lots and monuments and headstones in cemeteries
belonging to or under the control of

6
the City, such annual payments as
such custodians of the trust fund
are able and willing to make. The
funds so received shall be expended
by the Commissioner of Park Maintenance and Properties in the maintenance and beautification of the
particular lot and the maintenance
and repair of any headstone and
monument
standing
thereon
for
which such contribution is made.
The Commissioner is authorized to
issue receipts for such funds stipulating
that
the
same
shall
be
expended solely for the improvements of the lots, headstones and
monuments designated by such custodian of the trust fund.
Section 557.21
Trust Funds Deposited in City Cemetery Endowment Fund
Trust funds heretofore established
for the perpetual care of cemetery
lots heretofore sold may be turned
in whole or in part into the Cleveland
City
Cemetery
Endowment
Fund with the concurrence of the
Commissioner of Park Maintenance
and Properties and of the purchaser
of any such lot or his representative
or successor in interest having
power to assent thereto. In case
trust funds are not so turned into
such Fund, the original trust agreement
shall
continue
in
force
unchanged.
Section 557.22
Funds for Additional Care of Beautification
Purchasers of cemetery lots may
create and the City may accept the
custody and administration of perpetual trust funds for the purpose of
providing care or beautification of
such lots in addition to the care provided from the Cemetery Operating
Fund. Every fund so created shall
be evidenced by an agreement in
form prescribed and approved by the
Director of Law, executed by the
purchaser in his own behalf and by
the Commissioner of Park Maintenance and Properties and the Director of Finance in behalf of the City.
For the purpose of custody and
investment, but not otherwise, the
principal
amount
of
such
trust
funds, whether created prior to the
enactment of this section or pursuant to its terms, shall be treated
as part of the Cleveland City Cemetery Endowment Fund. The earnings of each such trust fund shall
be applied exclusively to the care
and beautification of the lot for
which such trust fund was established. Such expenditure may be
made each year as the earnings
accrue, or a reserve may be accumulated of such earnings in such
amount as the Commissioner may
deem necessary to meet emergencies
and unanticipated requirements.
Section 557.23
Cemetery Operating Fund
(a) The income from the Cleveland
City
Cemetery
Endowment
Fund and from deferred payments
due thereto, and all earnings attributable to the cemeteries, including
those described in Section 557.08(c),
shall be paid into the Cemetery
Operating Fund hereby established.
Moneys in the Cemetery Operating
Fund shall be available each year
for appropriation for the purpose of

The City Record
operating, maintaining, caring for,
improving and beautifying cemeteries of the City, or parts thereof.
(b) No moneys in the Cemetery
Operating Fund derived from the
Cleveland City Cemetery Endowment Fund or from trust funds or
from earnings attributable to the
cemeteries shall ever be transferred
or diverted to any other fund, or expended for any other purpose than
those specified in this section.
(c) The salaries of the employees
necessary for the cemeteries and
other expenses necessary for the
cemeteries, shall be payable from
the Cemetery Operating Fund.
Section 557.25
Plan of Mausoleums
The Commissioner of Park Maintenance and Properties shall at all
times keep in his office as a public
record a plan of every City mausoleum, which plan shall show and
clearly identify every crypt and
niche intended for use as a repository of human remains. Such plan
shall not be of any force or effect
for the purposes of this chapter
until and unless it is approved by
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties. Such plan may be
altered, amended, supplemented or
superseded by only a like plan similarly approved, which shall specifically state the plan or particular
items of the plan intended to be
altered, amended, supplemented or
superseded.
Section 557.26
Vaults or Crypts
for Temporary Use
The Commissioner of Park Maintenance and Properties may designate upon the plan provided for in
Section 557.25 a sufficient number of
vaults or crypts for the purpose of
the temporary receipt and keeping
of human remains, pending their
permanent burial or placement in a
private crypt. No human remains not
intended for immediate burial or
placement in a private crypt shall
be placed or kept in any other place
in any City cemetery or mausoleum
than in the vaults or crypts designated as provided in this section.
The Commissioner shall have power
in each case to fix the rental for the
use of such temporary vault or
crypt, and to require the permanent
burial or placement in a private
crypt or other disposal of such
remains after a period deemed by
such Commissioner to be reasonable
in each case.
Section 557.27
Schedule of Mausoleum Prices
Prices at which crypts and niches
of City mausoleums shall be sold
shall be fixed by the Commissioner
of Park Maintenance and Properties
not later than the first offering of
any such crypt or niche for sale, in
the case of mausoleums hereafter
erected. The prices so fixed for all
of the crypts and niches shown on
any plan shall be included in a single schedule, which shall clearly
identify each crypt or niche and the
price thereof. No schedule or amendment thereto shall be valid until the
approval of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties and the
Director of Finance are endorsed
thereon, and until it is filed as a

2064

November 18, 2009
public record in the office of the
Commissioner. Whenever any prices
so fixed are to be changed, it shall
be done only by amending such
schedule, or by adopting a new
schedule which shall supersede all
prior schedules applicable to such
plan.
Section 557.28
Determination of
Crypt or Niche Price
The price of each crypt or niche
shall be the sum of two items, namely:
(a) The land and capital cost,
which shall be determined upon a
basis corresponding in principal to
the basis established in Sections
557.09 and 557.10 for the determination of land cost in the case of cemetery lots; and
(b) The endowment cost, being
the contribution required to be made
to the Cleveland City Cemetery
Endowment Fund, which shall be
determined as established in Section
557.11. Each such item, and the total
price, shall be shown on the schedule hereinbefore required.
Section 557.31
Plats, Plans and
Records
The Commissioner of Park Maintenance and Properties shall prepare
and maintain correct plats, plans or
other records sufficient to show the
purchasers or holders of certificates
of purchase, or of other instruments
equivalent thereto, of all lots, crypts
and niches.
Section 557.33
Charges for Services
The Commissioner of Park Maintenance and Properties shall have
power to fix and determine charges
to be made for the use of City crematories, or for other services rendered for the cemeteries.
Section 557.34 Rules and Regulations
The Commissioner of Park Maintenance and Properties shall have
power to make and prescribe rules
and regulations not inconsistent
with any provisions of this chapter,
for the management and conduct of
the cemeteries and of any matters
relating to the administration thereof.
Section 557.35 Determining Costs
of Mausoleums
Wherever a City mausoleum is
combined in the same building with
a chapel, a crematory or other facilities not solely required for the mausoleum, the Commissioner of Park
Maintenance and Properties shall
have power in determining the land
and capital cost of such mausoleum
to exclude such portion of the total
cost of such entire building as may
represent the cost of such crematory, chapel and other facilities not
solely required for such mausoleum.
Section 557.36 Power to Decrease
Prices
Wherever the Commissioner of
Park Maintenance and Properties
determines that cemetery lots, mausoleum crypts or niches cannot be
sold at prices determined as provided in the foregoing sections of this
chapter, he shall have power, with
the approval of the Director of

November 18, 2009
Parks, Recreation and Properties, to
fix such less price as shall represent
the highest price reasonably obtainable, not less than the endowment
cost fixed as determined in this
chapter, and to diminish the land
cost or the land and capital cost in
such proportion as may be required.
No sale shall be made for less than
the determined endowment cost, and
the full amount of the endowment
cost shall in every case be paid into
the respective endowment funds as
in cases where the price is the full
sum required by this chapter.
Section 2. That the following
existing sections of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 557.03, 557.04, 557.06, and
557.07, as enacted by Ordinance No.
81865, passed April 2, 1928,
Section 557.08, as amended by Ordinance No. 98793, passed April 20, 1933,
Section 557.09, as enacted by Ordinance No. 81865, passed April 2, 1928,
Section 557.11, as amended by Ordinance No. 98793, passed April 20, 1933,
Sections
557.12,
557.13,
557.14,
557.15, 557.18 and 557.19, as enacted
by Ordinance No. 81865, passed April
2, 1928,
Section 557.20, as amended by Ordinance No. 95202, passed July 27, 1931,
Sections 557.21 and 557.22, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 81865,
passed April 2, 1928,
Section 557.23, as amended by Ordinance No. 98793, passed April 20, 1933,
Sections 557.25, 557.26, and 557.27,
as enacted by Ordinance No. 81865,
passed April 2, 1928,
Section 557.28, as amended by Ordinance No. 98793, passed April 20, 1933,
Sections 557.31, 557.33, and 557.34,
as enacted by Ordinance No. 81865,
passed April 2, 1928,
Sections 557.35 and 557.36, as
amended by Ordinance No. 84157,
passed November 12, 1928, and
Section 557.99, as amended by
Ordinance No. 63410-A, passed September 22, 1924,
are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committees on Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1660-09.
By Council Members Dow and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Sections 187A.01 to 187A.06 and
187A.99, relating to the Local Producer
and
Sustainable
Business
Preference Code.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Sec-

The City Record
tions 187A.01 to 187A.06 and 187A.99,
to read as follows:
CHAPTER 187A
LOCAL PRODUCER AND
SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS
PREFERENCE CODE
Section 187A.01 Definitions of Terms
As used in this Chapter, the following words, phrases, and terms
shall be defined as set forth below:
(a) “Bidder” means a Person offering or proposing to contract with
the City respectively in response to
an invitation to bid or a request for
proposals.
(b) “Bid Discount” means the application of a percentage discount to
the total amount of a bid submitted
by a Bidder for a Contract solely for
the purpose of bid comparisons
when determining the lowest and
best bid, or lowest responsible bid.
The use of a Bid Discount for Bid
Comparison does not alter the total
amount of the bid submitted by a
Bidder or the Contract executed
based on a bid.
(c) “Business Enterprise” means a
firm, sole proprietorship, partnership, association, corporation, company, or other business entity of any
kind including, but not limited to, a
limited liability corporation, incorporated
professional
association,
joint venture, estate, or trust.
(d) “City” means the City of Cleveland, Ohio.
(e) “Cleveland Contracting Market” or “Contracting Market” means
the geographic market area consisting of Cuyahoga County, Geauga
County, Lake County, Lorain County, and Medina County, Ohio.
(f) “Commercially Useful Function”
means when a Local Producer:
(1) Assumes the actual and contractual responsibility for furnishing the supplies or materials;
(2) Is recognized as a provider of
the contracted supplies and materials by the industry involved;
(3) Owns or leases a warehouse,
yard, building or other facilities for
stocking inventory or otherwise conducts business in a manner which is
usual and customary in the industry
and market for the supplies or materials; and
(4) Distributes, delivers, and services products primarily with its
own staff and/or equipment.
(g) “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
or the Commissioner’s designee.
(h) “Contract” means a binding
agreement executed on or after the
effective date of this Local Producer and Sustainable Business Preference Code by which the City either
grants a privilege or is committed
to expend or does expend its funds
or other resources, or confers a benefit having monetary value including, but not limited to, a grant, loan,
interest in real or personal property, or tax incentive in any form for
or in connection with any work, project, or public purpose including, but
not limited to, a contract for the:
(1) Construction of any public improvement, including change orders
or subsidiary agreements approved
by the City during the performance
of such Construction;
(2) Purchase of personal property;
(3) Purchase of any supplies,
equipment or services; or

2065

7
(4) Lease of any personal property.
“Contract” shall include a binding
agreement, funded or benefited by
the City, between a party to a Contract and a third party, but shall
exclude contracts with other public
entities, except as provided in Section 187.09.
(i) “Contracting Department” includes any administrative department under charge of the Mayor or
any office, board, or commission
treated or construed as a department of City government for any
purpose under the Charter or ordinances of the City for the benefit or
program of which the City enters
into a particular Contract.
(j) “Contractor” means a separate
or distinguishable Business Enterprise employing one or more persons
and participating in the performance of a Contract and shall
include a Person in privity of contract with a Contractor for implementation of a Contract.
(k) “Director” means the official
authorized to enter into a Contract
on behalf of a particular Contracting Department.
(l) “Evaluation Credit” means a
predetermined number of points in
the evaluation of proposals submitted by a Bidder for a Contract to be
added solely for the purpose of proposal comparison when evaluating
competing proposals. The use of
Evaluation Credits does not alter
the amount of the proposal submitted by a Bidder or the Contract executed based on the proposal.
(m) “Local Producer and Sustainable
Business
Preference
Code”,
“Preference Code”, “Code” or “Chapter” means all of the provisions of
this Chapter 187A of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
(n) “Local Producer” means a Person that: 1) grows crops or fabricates goods, whether or not finished,
from organic or raw materials; 2)
processes goods, materials, or other
products so as to increase their commercial value by not less than 50%;
3) supplies goods by performing a
Commercially Useful Function; or 4)
provides, by its qualified full-time
employees, maintenance, repair, personal, or professional services.
(o) “Local Sustainable Business”
means a Business Enterprise that is
a member of or signatory to a
nationally-recognized sustainability
program such as, but not limited to,
Green Plus, U.N. Global Compact,
U.S. Green Building Council, or other
sustainability program determined
acceptable by the City Chief of Sustainability or other officer designated by the Mayor.
(p) “Person” means and includes
a natural person, a Business Enterprise or other entity, unless the context or usage requires otherwise.
Section 187A.02 Use of Local Producers and Sustainable Businesses
(a) Application of Bid Discount –
A
Contracting
Department
shall
apply a Bid Discount of two percent
(2%) to a bid received from a Local
Producer and two percent (2%) to a
bid received from a Local Sustainable Business. Bid Discounts applied
under this division (b) shall be in
addition to any Bid Discount applied
under Sections 187.03 and 187.05. The
maximum amount of any Bid Discounts applied to a bid under this

The City Record

8
division
(b)
shall
not
exceed
$50,000.00, provided, however, that
the maximum cumulative amount of
all Bid Discounts applied to the bid
under this division (b) and under
Sections 187.03 and 187.05 shall not
exceed $75,000.00.
Application
of
Evaluation
(b)
Credit – A Contracting Department
shall apply an Evaluation Credit of
two percent (2%) of the total points
awarded for a proposal received
from a Local Producer and two percent (2%) of the total points awarded for a proposal received from a
Local Sustainable Business.
Section 187A.03 Compliance Monitoring
(a) Each Contracting Department
shall monitor a Contractor’s compliance with its bid representation as
to the use of Local Producers’ or
Local Sustainable Businesses’ goods,
materials, supplies, or services in
the performance of a Contract it
was awarded because of applying a
Bid Discount or Evaluation Credit
under Section 187A.02. If a Director
determines that there is cause to
believe that a Contractor failed to
utilize a Local Producer or Local
Sustainable Business as the Contractor bid or proposed, the Director
shall notify the Contractor of the
apparent breach of or default under
the Contract. A Director may require
a Contractor or Bidder to submit
such reports, information and documentation as reasonably necessary
to determine its compliance with the
use of Local Producer or Local Sustainable Business in the performance of a Contract.
(b) Each Contracting Department
shall maintain complete and accurate records of the use of Local Producers’ or Local Sustainable Businesses’ goods, materials, supplies, or
services in performance of the Contracting Department’s Contracts, including the dollar value of orders
supplied by Local Producers or
Local Sustainable Businesses, the
nature of the goods, materials, supplies, or services provided, and the
name and address, and the qualifications of each Local Producer or
Local Sustainable Business as such.
Section 187A.04 Sanctions for Noncompliance
If a Director determines that a
Contractor is in breach or default
with respect to any representation
regarding its status as a Local Producer or Local Sustainable Business
when the Contractor would not have
been the lowest bidder or recommended proposer for a Contract but
for application of any Bid Discount(s) or Evaluation Credit(s)
based upon that status, the Director,
in addition to other remedies available with respect to the foregoing
or other defaults under any Contract
in question, may take any of the following actions:
(a) Withhold all or part of any
payments due the Contractor until
the Contractor cures the default, if
possible;
(b) Cancel the Contract and declare a forfeiture of any performance bond;
(c) Recommend to the Director of
Law that the City take such legal
action, whether civil or criminal, as
the Director of Law deems appropriate;

(d) Disqualify a Bidder, Contractor, or other Business Enterprise
from eligibility as Contractor, subcontractor, or Local Producer or
Local Sustainable Business for providing goods, materials, supplies, or
services to the City for a period not
to exceed two (2) years; or
(e) Make a claim for payment of
damages, including but not limited
to any liquidated damages specified
in the Contract.
Section 187A.05 Responsibilities of
Commissioner and Contracting Departments
The Commissioner and each Contracting Department shall:
(a) Endeavor to maximize the
purchase of Local Suppliers’ goods,
materials, supplies, or services in
Contracts of $10,000 or less; and
(b) Develop lists of Local Producers or Local Sustainable Businesses for whose goods, materials,
supplies, or services the City typically contracts.
Section 187A.06
Contracts with
Other Governmental Entities as Contractors
Contracts or other agreements
between the City and other political
subdivisions, governmental, or quasigovernmental agencies, under which
those entities receive money from or
through the City for the purpose of
contracting with Business Enterprises to perform projects in the
City, shall encourage Business Enterprises to comply with the provisions
of this Chapter in awarding, administering, and implementing the contracts.
Section 187A.99

Violations; Penal-

ty
(a) No Person shall willfully falsify, conceal or cover up by a trick,
scheme, or device a material fact, or
make any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statements or representations
or make use of any false writing or
document knowing the same to contain any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry in any matter administered under this Chapter.
(c) No Person shall fraudulently
obtain, attempt to obtain, or aid
another Person fraudulently obtaining or attempting to obtain a Local
Producer’s
or
Local
Sustainable
Business’ Bid Discount or Evaluation Credit to which the Person is
not entitled under this Chapter.
(c) Any Person who violates the
provisions of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committees on Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1661-09.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1 and 2 of
Ordinance No. 1260-06, passed November 20, 2006, as amended by Ordi-

2066

November 18, 2009
nance No. 757-09, passed July 1, 2009,
relating to professional consultants
to implement Phase II and Phase III
of the Human Resource Enhancement Program, for the Department
of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 126006, passed November 20, 2006, as
amended by Ordinance No. 757-09,
passed July 1, 2009, are amended to
read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to implement Phase II
and Phase III of the Human Resource Enhancement Program, for
the various divisions of the Department of Public Utilities.
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to implement Phase
II and Phase III of the Human
Resource Enhancement Program, for
the various divisions of the Department of Public Utilities, including
but not limited to, the implementation of selected pilot programs and
staff training recommended under
Phase I of the Human Resource Enhancement Program, and full implementation of recommended programs
and development of a support plan
for current and future employees.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Utilities for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract
or
contracts
authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Utilities, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 50 SF 001,
50 SF 003, 52 SF 001, 54 SF 001, and
58 SF 001, Request No. 163834.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No.
1260-06, passed November 20, 2006, as
amended by Ordinance No. 757-09,
passed July 1, 2009, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.

November 18, 2009
Ord. No. 1662-09.
By Council Members Zone, Dow
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to enact
new Sections 523.25 and 523.26 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, relating to interconnection service for distributed generation and net metering service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Sections 523.25 and 523.26 to read as follows:
Section 523.25 Interconnection Service for Distributed Generation
(a) Applicability. Interconnection
shall be available to residential and
non-residential customers who purchase their requirements of electric
service from the Division under the
applicable rate schedule and own
and operate distributed generation
located on the customer’s premises.
The total rated capacity of such
generators shall not exceed 1,000
kW per customer premises.
(b) Definitions.
(1) “Distributed generation” is electrical generation located on the customer’s premises that:
A. is primarily intended to offset
part or all of the customer’s own
electrical requirements on the premises;
B. is interconnected with the Division’s electric system in compliance
with the terms of division (c) of this
section; and
C. operates in parallel with the
Division’s distribution system.
(c) Interconnection. No customer
shall connect distributed generation
to the Division’s distribution system
except upon the Division’s approval
of a written application in a form
prescribed by the Division. The customer shall be responsible for the
permitting, design, installation, operation, and maintenance of the distributed generation; the costs of any
necessary modification of the Division’s facilities; and payment of the
Division’s cost to review the application and perform any necessary
studies. The distributed generation
shall comply with all applicable
safety, power quality, and interconnection requirements established by
the National Electric Code (“NEC”),
the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (“IEEE”), Underwriters Laboratories (“UL”), and
any applicable local and state agencies.
The Division shall have the right
to approve the type of generation
installed by the customer based on
considerations of health, safety, regulatory compliance by the Division,
and the reliability of the Division’s
distribution system.
The Division may limit interconnected distributed generation to 15%
of the peak load of the line or line
segment, or such other limit as the
Division deems appropriate for reliability purposes.
(d) Standby power charge. Distributed generation installations of
any kind totaling 10 kilowatts or
less at a single premise shall not be

The City Record
subject to standby power charges.
There shall be no standby power
charge for wind or solar distributed
generation of any size. All other distributed
generation
installations
totaling more than 10 kilowatts at a
single premises shall be subject to
the standby rate contained in Section 523.12 multiplied by the rated
capacity of the distributed generation.
(e) Liability. The City shall not
be liable directly or indirectly for
permitting or allowing the connection of customer’s distributed generation to the Division’s distribution
system or for the acts or omissions
of the customer generator that cause
property damage, loss, injury, or
death to any person.
Section 523.26
Net Metering Service
(a) Applicability. Net metering
shall be available to residential and
non-residential customers who:
(1) purchase their requirements of
electric service from the Division
under the applicable rate schedule;
(2) own and operate distributed
generation as defined in Section
523.25 that uses advanced energy
resources; and
(3) are interconnected according
to the terms of Section 523.25.
(b) Definitions. As used in this
section:
(1) “Advanced Energy Resources”
means generation produced by fuel
cells, waste-to energy generation,
low-impact hydropower, wind power,
biomass, solar power, landfill gas,
solar photovoltaic, and solar thermal
resources.
(2) “Net energy” is the difference,
positive or negative, between the
amount of electricity supplied by the
Division to the customer through the
Division’s electric distribution system and the amount of electricity
generated by the customer’s distributed generation which is fed back
into the Division’s electric distribution system.
(3) “Net metering” is a method of
measuring the difference, positive or
negative,
between
the
kilowatt
hours of electricity supplied by the
Division to the customer through the
Division’s electric distribution system and the kilowatt hours of electricity generated by the customer’s
distributed generation which is fed
back into the Division’s electric distribution system.
(c) Billing and charges. The customer shall pay for the net energy
used in accordance with the following rules:
(1) For electricity supplied by the
Division to the customer in excess
of the electricity generated by the
customer during any billing period,
the customer shall pay the rates and
charges under the applicable rate
schedule.
(2) The customer shall receive a
credit in kilowatt hours for electricity generated by the customer in
excess of the kilowatt hours of electricity supplied by the Division during any billing period. Such credit
shall be carried over and applied to
offset the customer’s consumption
during subsequent months until termination of customer’s service.
(3) If a customer terminates service, any remaining credit balance
in favor of the customer shall be
zeroed out with no liability to the
Division.

2067

9
Participating customers shall be
subject to all other charges, rates,
terms and conditions of the applicable rate schedule except as expressly
altered by this rate schedule.
(d) Metering. Net energy shall be
measured using a single meter
which shall be installed, owned, and
maintained by the Division and
shall be capable of registering the
flow of electricity in two directions.
The Division may offer advanced
metering, which shall be supplied at
the customer’s cost and shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by
the Division.
(e) Application. Customers requesting service under this schedule must
submit a written application for
interconnection pursuant to Section
523.25.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on
Public
Utilities,
Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1663-09.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into an agreement with the
City of Bratenahl, Ohio to provide
emergency medical services within
the City of Bratenahl, Ohio, for a
period of one year, with options to
renew exercisable by the Director of
Public Safety, to extend the term for
additional one-year periods.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into an agreement with the City of
Bratenahl, Ohio to provide emergency medical services within the
City of Bratenahl, Ohio for a service
coverage fee of not less than $25,000
annually. This agreement shall be
entered into as of January 1, 2010
and shall be for a term of one year,
with options to renew exercisable
by the Director of Public Safety, to
extend the term for additional oneyear periods.
Section 2. That the agreement
shall be authorized by the legislative body of the City of Bratenahl.
Section 3. That the agreement
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.

10
Ord. No. 1664-09.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into one or more contracts with various non-profit agencies for the implementation of homeless assistance activities; and to
enter into one or more contracts with
Cuyahoga County for the operation
of the Cleveland/Cuyahoga County
Office of Homeless Services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with various non-profit agencies for the implementation of homeless assistance activities.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with Cuyahoga County to
operate
the
Cleveland/Cuyahoga
County Office of Homeless Services.
Section 3. That the aggregate cost
of the contracts authorized shall not
exceed $1,799,873.69 and shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 19 SF 631 and
14 SF 035, Request No. 178667.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1665-09.
By Council Members Zone, Brancatelli, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to execute a deed of easement granting to Vine Court Properties, LLC certain easement rights
in property located on the south side
of Detroit Avenue and declaring the
easements rights no longer needed
for public use.
Whereas, Vine Court Properties,
LLC has requested the Director of
Community Development to convey
certain easement rights located on
the south side of Detroit Avenue,
east of West 65th Street and known
as Consolidated Parcels 1 and 3 in
the Vine Court/City of Cleveland
Plat of Lot Split and Consolidation
for the purpose of allowing access
to Vine Court Properties, LLC’s businesses and for maintenance purposes; and
Whereas, the easement rights to
be granted are no longer needed for
public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that an easement interest in
the following described property is
no longer needed for public use:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
VINE COURT PROPERTIES, LLC
ACCESS AND MAINTENANCE
EASEMENT
Situated in the State of Ohio,
County of Cuyahoga, City of Cleveland and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
32 and also known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 1 and 2 in the Johnson,
Sacket and Waterbury Allotment as
recorded in Plat Volume 9, Page 27
of Cuyahoga County Records and
being an easement for access to and
maintenance
of
buildings
and
grounds of Vine Court Properties,
LLC being Parcel Nos. 002-16-013 and
002-16-014 and being more fully
described as follows:
Beginning on the South line of
Detroit Avenue at the Northwest corner of said Sublot No. 1;
Thence North 70° 30' 30" East
along the South line of said Detroit
Avenue, 18.00 feet to the True Place
of
Beginning
for
the
easement
intended to be described herein;
Thence North 70° 30' 30" East
along the South line of said Detroit
Avenue, 24.00 feet;
Thence South 19° 31' 28" East
15.02 feet;
Thence North 70° 30' 30" East
59.80 feet to the west line of said
Vine Court properties, LLC;
Thence South 19° 31' 28" East
along the said West line, 158.94 feet
to the South line of said Sublot No.
2;
Thence South 70° 41' 35" West
along the South line of said Sublot
No. 2, 15.00 feet;
Thence North 19° 31' 28" West,
134.89 feet;
Thence South 70° 30' 30" West,
68.80 feet;
Thence North 19° 31' 28" West
39.01 feet to the True Place of
Beginning as determined by Robert
J. Warner, P.S. No. 6931 for Floyd
Browne Group in July, 2009.
Bearings are based on an assumed
meridian and are used to indicate
angles only.
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
above-described easement interest to
Vine Court Properties, LLC, subject
to any conditions stated, at a price
not less than fair market value as
determined by the Board of Control.
Section 3. That the easement shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be to allow
access to Vine Court Properties,
LLC’s businesses and for maintenance purposes.
Section 4. That the duration of the
easement shall be permanent; that
the easement may include right of
entry rights to the City; that the easement shall be assignable with the
approval of the Board of Control; that
the easement shall require that Vine
Court Properties, LLC indemnify the
City, provide reasonable insurance,
maintain any Vine Court Properties,

2068

November 18, 2009
LLC improvements located within the
easement, and pay any applicable
taxes and assessments.
Section 5. That the conveyance
referred to above shall be made by
official deed of easement prepared
by Director of Law and executed by
the Director of Community Development on behalf of the City of Cleveland. The deed of easement shall
contain such additional terms and
conditions as are required to protect
the interests of the City. The Directors of Community Development and
Law including without limitation,
contracts for right of entry, are
authorized to execute such other
documents, as may be necessary to
effect
the
construction
of
the
improvements.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1666-09.
By Council Members Conwell, Brancatelli, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase property
for future redevelopment at 1350
East 105th Street, for the Department of Community Development;
and authorizing the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies to convey
the property to Famicos Foundation,
or its designee, which is not needed
for public use; and authorizing the
Director of Community Development
to enter into a development agreement with Famicos Foundation, or
its designee.
Whereas, the Director of Community Development has requested the
purchase
of
property
from
the
Department of Housing and Urban
Development (“HUD”) known as the
Doan Classroom Apartments located
at 1350 East 105th Street and the
subsequent sale of the property to
Famicos Foundation, or its designee
(the “Redeveloper”) for the public
purpose of future redevelopment;
and
Whereas, HUD is willing to sell
the properties through a negotiated
sale, rather than an auction, but
under current federal law, HUD may
only sell the property through a
negotiated sale to a local government; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland is
willing to acquire the property, at a
cost to the City of $10.00, and immediately convey it to the Redeveloper
for a cost of $10.00 for future redevelopment; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

November 18, 2009
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
purchase the following described
property for future redevelopment:
Permanent Parcel No. 107-23-009
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
county of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio being Sublots Nos. 11, 12, 13, 14,
15, 16, 17, 18, 19, and 20 in Morley
and Morison’s Subdivision of Original 100 Acre Lot no. 385 recorded in
Volume 25, Page 26 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and Sublots Nos. 11
and 12 in East Boulevard Co’s Allotment recorded in Volume 47, Page
27 of Cuyahoga County Records,
forming a parcel of land having a
frontage of 332.77 feet on the Westerly side of East 105th Street (60
feet wide); and 284.14 feet on the
Northerly line which is also the
Southerly line of Churchill Avenue,
(40 feet wide); and 110.00 feet on the
Southerly
line,
being
also
the
Southerly line of Sublot No. 12 in the
East
Boulevard
Co’s
Allotment
recorded in Volume 47 Page 27 of
Cuyahoga County Records; and having a rear line of 347.45 feet; said
rear line being also the Easterly
line of East 103 Place (12 feet
wide), be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to execute on behalf of the
City of Cleveland all necessary documents to acquire and to convey the
property and to employ and pay all
fees for title companies, surveys,
escrows, appraisers, environmental
audits, and all other costs necessary
for the acquisition of the property.
Section 3. That the consideration
to be paid for this property shall not
exceed $10.00, and other valuable
consideration, determined to be fair
market value.
Section 4. That all costs of acquisition of land shall be paid from
Fund No. 14.
Section 5. That this Council finds
that the acquisition by the city and
conveyance to the Redeveloper constitutes a public use of the property for the purposes of redevelopment.
Section 6. That at the direction of
the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to convey the property
previously described in this ordinance to the Redeveloper for $10.00,
and other valuable consideration,
which is determined to be fair market value by the Board of Control,
taking into account all restrictions,
reversionary interests and similar
encumbrances placed by the City of
Cleveland
in
the
deed
of
conveyance.
Section 7. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain necessary provisions,
including
restrictive
reversionary
interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control or Director of Law,
which shall protect the parties as
their respective interests require
and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection of any
advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.

The City Record
Section 8. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that the properties described
in this ordinance are no longer needed for public use.
Section 9. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to any section
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of Community Development is authorized
to enter into a development agreement with the Redeveloper, for the
acquisition, disposition, and private
redevelopment
of
the
property
described above.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1667-09.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the Tax Incentive Review Council’s Year 2008 recommendations.
Whereas, under Section 5709.88 of
the Revised Code, if a municipal corporation grants an exemption from
taxation, they shall create a Tax
Incentive Review Council (“TIRC”);
and
Whereas, one of the functions of
the TIRC is to annually review all
agreements
granting
exemptions
from property taxation and to make
recommendations to either continue,
modify, or cancel their agreements
based on various factors, including
fluctuations in the business cycle
unique to the owner’s business; and
Whereas, in compliance with Section 5709.88 of the Revised Code, the
City of Cleveland has created a
TIRC and the TIRC has made written recommendations on exemptions
to be approved by the legislative
authority; and
Whereas, under division (D) of
Section 5709.88 of the Revised Code,
once a legislative authority receives
written recommendations from a tax
incentive review council, that legislative authority has sixty days
after receiving the recommendations,
to hold a meeting and vote to accept, reject, or modify, all or any
portion of the recommendations; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the TIRC’s Year
2008 recommendations contained in
File No. 1667-09-A, are approved.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

2069

11
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1668-09.
By Council Members Johnson, Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
Clean Ohio grant from the State of
Ohio Department of Development for
the Miceli’s Dairy expansion project
located in the vicinity of 2800 Grand
Avenue located in Cleveland, Ohio;
and authorizing the Director to
enter into one or more contracts
with Miceli-Lograsso Development
Company III, LLC, or its designee,
to implement the project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
apply for and accept a Clean Ohio
grant in an amount up to $300,000,
from the State of Ohio Department of
Development for the Miceli’s Dairy
expansion project located in the
vicinity of 2800 Grand Avenue located in Cleveland, Ohio, to be used to
implement the project as described in
the executive summary below; that
the Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes described in the executive summary for
the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the executive summary for the grant, File No. 1668-09A, made a part of this ordinance as
if fully rewritten, as presented to
the Finance Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with Miceli-Lograsso Development Company III, LLC, or its
designee, to implement the project.
Section 4. That the contract or
contracts authorized by this ordinance shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 5. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized will be
paid from the fund or subfunds that
are credited the proceeds of the
grant accepted under this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

12
Ord. No. 1669-09.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to employ one or more professional consultants to develop and
to recommend implementation steps
for a Climate Action Plan and a Sustainable Cleveland 2019 Follow-Up
Plan.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to employ by contract or contracts one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to develop and to recommend implementation steps for a Climate Action
Plan and a Sustainable Cleveland
2019 Follow-Up Plan.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Economic
Development from a list of qualified
consultants available for employment as may be determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Economic Development
for the purpose of compiling a list.
The compensation to be paid for the
services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Economic Development,
and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contracts or contracts and other expenditures authorized shall be paid
from the fund or funds to which are
credited any grant proceeds accepted under Ordinance No. 463-09,
passed April 20, 2009, Request No.
194633.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1670-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Relations to apply for and accept a grant
from Cuyahoga County Department
of Justice Affairs Criminal Justice
Services Agency for the Juvenile
Accountability
Block
Grant
Program.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Relations is authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the approximate amount of $74,543,
and any other funds that may
become available during the grant
term from Cuyahoga County Department of Justice Affairs Criminal
Justice Services Agency to conduct
the Juvenile Accountability Block
Grant Program; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
summary for the grant contained in
the file described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1670-09-A made a
part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the
public hearing on this legislation,
including the obligation of the City
of Cleveland to provide cash matching funds in the amount of $8,282.55,
payable from Fund No. 01-010900639905, and is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Relations, Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1671-09.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the City Planning Commission to apply for and
accept one or more grants from
Northeast Ohio Area Coordinating
Agency for the Transportation for
Livable Communities Grant Program; authorizing the Director to
enter into one or more contracts
with various entities to implement
the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission is authorized to apply for and accept one or
more grants up to $459,250, from
Northeast Ohio Area Coordinating
Agency to conduct the Transportation for Livable Communities Program; that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grants; and that
the funds are appropriated for the

2070

November 18, 2009
purposes described in the application’s cover pages contained in the
file described below.
Section 2. That the application’s
cover pages File No. 1671-09-A, made
a part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the
public hearing on this legislation
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority, is
approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission is authorized to enter into one or more contracts or memoranda of understanding, as appropriate, with NOACA
and the following entities to implement the grant as described in the
file: Famicos Foundation, Kamm’s
Corners Development Corporation,
Shaker Square Area Development
Corporation, The Quadrangle, Inc.,
Union Miles Development Corporation, Westown Community Development Corporation, and Ohio City
Near West Community Development
Corporation.
Section 4. That the cost of contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from the fund or funds
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS REFERRED
Res. No. 1672-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution requesting the County Auditor to make
advances during the year 2010 under
Section 321.34 of the Revised Code.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
321.34 of the Revised Code, the County Auditor is requested to draw, and
the County Treasurer is requested to
pay, on draft or drafts made payable
to the Treasury of the City of Cleveland, any money that may be in the
County Treasury from time to time
during the year 2010 and credited to
the account of the City of Cleveland
and lawfully applicable to the purpose of the 2010 fiscal year, during
which year such request will be
made. The payments are to be made
from time to time in accordance
with the schedule set by Cuyahoga
County.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a certified
copy of this resolution to the Auditor of Cuyahoga County.

The City Record

November 18, 2009
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Res. No. 1673-09.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution supporting Cuyahoga County’s grant application to the Clean Ohio Council for
Clean Ohio Revitalization funds to
be used for the redevelopment of the
former American Industrial Buildings and Art Metals sites.
Whereas,
the
State
of
Ohio,
through the Clean Ohio Council, provides financial assistance to local
governments for the purpose of
addressing local needs; and
Whereas, Cuyahoga County is submitting a Clean Ohio Revitalization
Fund Program application to complete eligible activities, including
but not limited to the performance
of remedial activities at the former
American Industrial Buildings and
Arts Metals sites redevelopment project; and
Whereas, the redevelopment of the
former American Industrial Build-

ings and Arts Metals sites project
area is an approximately 6.3 acre
property located principally at 12369
Euclid Avenue and 12401 Euclid
Avenue identified as Permanent
Parcel Numbers 120-25-008, 120-25-009,
120-25-010, 120-25-011 and 120-25-017 in
the City of Cleveland and Permanent Parcel Numbers 672-13-003, 67213-004,
672-13-005,
and
672-13-006
located within the boundaries of the
City of East Cleveland; and
Whereas, Cuyahoga County intends
to remediate the property that was
once used for auto manufacturing,
corrugated cardboard box manufacturing, wallpaper production, metal
plating, and art metal work for
redevelopment into the Medical Center Company’s Advanced Energy
Facility; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland is
committed to working with Cuyahoga County to prepare and submit
the application for the Clean Ohio
Revitalization Fund to pursue the
remediation and redevelopment of
the property; and
Whereas, the Clean Ohio Revitalization Fund grant is vital to making the completion of the redevelopment of the former American Industrial Buildings and Art Metals sites
project economically feasible; and
Whereas, that the City of Cleveland approves and authorizes Cuyahoga County to submit a Clean Ohio
Revitalization Fund application for
work at the redevelopment of the
former American Industrial Build-

13
ings and Art Metals sites, and that
the District 1 Integrating Committee
of the Ohio Public Works Commission and the Clean Ohio Council are
encouraged to fund this innovative
and worthwhile project; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports Cuyahoga County’s grant application to the Clean Ohio Council
for Clean Ohio Revitalization funds
to be used for the redevelopment
of the former American Industrial
Buildings and Art Metals sites.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to send copies of this
resolution to the Board of Cuyahoga
County Commissioners and to the
Clean Ohio Council.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY ORDINANCES READ IN FULL AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1674-09.
By Council Members Pruitt and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 47 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 1459-08, passed September 22, 2008, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 47 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 1459-08,
passed September 22, 2008, is amended to read as follows:
Section 47. Hourly Rate – MCEO
(a) Effective May 1, 2009, compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each
classification:

1.
2.
3.

Construction Equipment – Group A ....................................
Construction Equipment – Group B ....................................
Master Mechanic..........................................................................

Minimum
$27.42
$27.27
$27.92

Maximum
$43.90
$43.75
$44.40

(b) Effective October 1, 2009, compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following
classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule
for each classification:
Maximum
Minimum
1.
Construction Equipment – Group A ....................................
$27.42
$44.40
2.
Construction Equipment – Group B ....................................
$27.27
$44.25
3.
Master Mechanic..........................................................................
$27.92
$44.90
Section 2. That existing Section 47 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No.
1459-08, passed September 22, 2008, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter, and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

2071

14
Ord. No. 1675-09.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into a Tenth Amendment to City
Contract No. 60428 with West Services, Inc., to provide the professional services necessary to update,
print, index and bind cumulative
supplements to the Codified Ordinances and supplements of individual parts of the Codified Ordinances,
including alternative formats and
internet updates, and to provide
reviews, comparisons and updates of
Parts IV and VI of the Codified
Ordinances to conform with amendments made to the Ohio Revised
Code, and to authorize other amendments necessary for additional printings of the Codified Ordinances and
its parts.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into a
Tenth Amendment to City Contract
No. 60428 with West Services, Inc.,
to provide the professional services
necessary to update, print, index
and bind cumulative supplements to
the Codified Ordinances and supplements of individual parts of the Codified Ordinances, including alternative formats and internet updates,
and to provide reviews, comparisons
and updates of Parts IV and VI of
the Codified Ordinances to conform
with amendments made to the Ohio
Revised Code. The effective date of
the Tenth Amendment shall be on or
about September 19, 2009 and continue for a period of one year. The
Clerk may exercise three separate
options to enter into additional
amendments renewing any or all
portions of the Tenth Amendment
for additional one year periods, cancelable upon 30 days written notice
by the Clerk. Payment for services
completed under the Tenth Amendment and any additional amendments shall be from fund numbers
632000-01-010100.
The Clerk is further authorized
during the term of the Tenth Amendment and the terms of any additional amendments, to enter into a separate amendment or amendments to
City Contract No. 60428 as may be
necessary
to
purchase
additional
printings of any or all of the parts
of the Charter and Codified Ordinances, main volumes and/or supplements, binders, inserts and labels.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1676-09.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with NetX Internet LLC to provide wireless internet service to Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized to enter
into an Agreement with NetX Internet LLC to provide wireless internet service to Cleveland City Council, including installation, equipment,
management,
maintenance
and repair for a period of three
years, beginning on January 1,
2010. The cost of the agreement
shall be $799.00 per month and
shall be paid from fund number
632000-01-010100.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1677-09.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to
make payment to Barrett Brothers
for publication of a record of legislation book for Cleveland City
Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make a
one-time payment in the amount of
$586.00 to Barrett Brothers for publication of a record of legislation
book for Cleveland City Council.
Said payment shall be made from
fund numbers 632000-01-010100.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

2072

November 18, 2009
Ord. No. 1678-09.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to make
payment to Iron Mountain Information Management for storage of documents for Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make a
one-time payment in the amount of
$13,201.00 to Iron Mountain Information Management for storage of certain documents for Cleveland City
Council. Said payment shall be made
from fund numbers 632000-01-010100.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1679-09.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 2 of Ordinance No. 161109 passed November 9, 2009 as it pertains to authorizing the Director of
the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement
with Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation for the Fairfax
Computer Learning Program through
the use of Ward 6 Neighborhood
Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1611-09 passed November
9, 2009 is hereby amended to read as
follow:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $18,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1611-09 passed November
9, 2009 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

November 18, 2009
Ord. No. 1680-09.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Keane and Brady.
An emergency ordinance repealing Ordinance No. 1552-09 passed
October 26, 2009.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Ordinance No. 155209, passed October 26, 2009 is hereby repealed.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1681-09.
By Council Members Kelley, Zone
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. 68710 with Early Morning Software, Inc. to develop a data collection and analysis system of contract
compliance requirements, to include
the various divisions of City government.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 18207, passed April 23, 2007, this Council authorized the Director of Port
Control to enter into Contract No.
68710 with Early Morning Software,
Inc. for the development of a data
collection and analysis system of
contract compliance requirements, including installing, designing, training, implementing, testing, maintaining, technical support, and other
related issues for the various divisions of the Department of Port Control; and
Whereas, the Director of Port Control desires to amend Contract No.
68710 to include the various divisions of City government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into an amendment to Contract No.
68710 with Early Morning Software,
Inc. for the development of a data
collection and analysis system of contract compliance requirements, including installing, designing, training,
implementing, testing, maintaining,
technical support, and other related
issues to include the various divisions
of
City
government.
The
amendment shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 52 SF 001, 54 SF 001, 58 SF 001
and other funds appropriated for
this purpose, Request No. 158685.

The City Record
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1682-09.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency ordinance to change
the name of Denison Cemetery to
Brooklyn Centre Burying Ground.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the name of Denison Cemetery shall hereafter be
changed to Brooklyn Centre Burying Ground, and that the Director
of Parks, Recreation and Properties is authorized and directed to
take the necessary action to affect
said name change and to post the
proper signs.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1683-09.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 599-09,
passed June 1, 2009, relating to the
operation of the Low Interest Loan
and Grant Program and authorizing
contracts under the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 599-09, passed June 1, 2009,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to expend funds from Fund No.
14
SF
035
in
the
amount
of
$2,417,000, Federal HOME Program
funds from Fund No. 19 SF 630 in
the amount of $1,279,763, and UDAG
Repayment Funds in the amount of
$240,000 from Fund No. 19 SF 606 for

2073

15
the operation of the Low Interest
Loan and Grant Programs, including
all related services. The Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs include Repair-A-Home (RAH), Corrective Action Grant, Afford-A-Home
(AAH), Senior Home Owners Assistance Program (SHAP), Paint Refund Program, Housewarming, Furnace Repair, Home Maintenance Assistance Program (HMAP), American Dream Downpayment Assistance Program, and second mortgage assistance to eligible homeowners.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 599-09, passed June
1, 2009, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1708-09.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to extend the
term of Agreement No. 69179 with
Mita Marketing LLC through December 31, 2009.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized to extend
the term of Agreement No. 69179
with Mita Marketing LLC through
December 31, 2009.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1684-09.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a D1 and D2 Liquor
Permit at 2300 Euclid Avenue and
repealing Resolution No. 1615-09,
objecting to said transfer.

16
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of liquor license of a D1
and D2 Liquor Permit to Compass
Group USA, Inc., DBA Elements
Bistro on Euclid, 2300 Euclid Avenue, Rooms 100, 101 & patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent No.
16679280015, adopted by the Council
on November 9, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1
and D2 Liquor Permit to Compass
Group USA, Inc., DBA Elements
Bistro on Euclid, 2300 Euclid Avenue, Rooms 100, 101 & patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number
16679280015 be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1615-09, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1685-09.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 910
East 185th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from Sunoco, Inc.,
R & M, DBA Sunoco 6045, 910 East
185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119,
Permanent Number 86967980080 to
Busy Store, Inc., 910 East 185th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent Number 1143619; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or

The City Record
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Sunoco, Inc., R
& M, DBA Sunoco 6045, 910 East
185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119,
Permanent Number 86967980080 to
Busy Store, Inc., 910 East 185th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent Number 1143619; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1686-09.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 383
East 156th Street, and repealing
Resolution No. 1140-09, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 383
East 156th Street by Resolution No.
1140-09 adopted by the Council on
August 5, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and

2074

November 18, 2009
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to John Dimmian, 383 East 156th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent Number
2175712 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 114009, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1687-09.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 18506
St. Clair Avenue, and repealing Resolution No. 1143-09, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 18506
St. Clair Avenue by Resolution No.
1143-09 adopted by the Council on
August 5, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to D B Ohio
Enterprise, Inc., DBA Food Plus
All, 18506 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent Number
18795700005 be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1143-09, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.

November 18, 2009
Res. No. 1688-09.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
15015 Ohio Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Leroy Mitchell
Investment, DBA Ty Grocery & Deli,
15015 Ohio Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44128, Permanent Number 6061857;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Leroy Mitchell
Investment, DBA Ty Grocery & Deli,
15015 Ohio Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44128, Permanent Number 6061857;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force

The City Record
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1689-09.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at 17426
Harvard Avenue, and repealing Resolution No. 958-09, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 17426
Harvard Avenue by Resolution No.
958-09 adopted by the Council on
July 1, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to TL Dorsey,
Inc., DBA Mr. Mac’s 17426 Harvard
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44128, Permanent Number 8948207 be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 958-09, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1690-09.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit at 8309 Madison Avenue, 1st
and 2nd floors.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 8309 Madison Avenue, 1st
and 2nd floors by Resolution No.
1172-09 adopted by the Council on
August 5, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

2075

17
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to Almont, Inc., DBA Sea Level, 8309
Madison Avenue, 1st and 2nd floors,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent
Number 0142976 be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1172-09, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1545-09.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. 67708 with Consolidated Electrical Distributors, Inc. dba
Leader Electric to provide electrical
parts and equipment, including labor,
materials and installation, if necessary, to maintain, repair, and modify electrical systems at airport properties for the various divisions of
the Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1556-09.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. 67417 with Unison Consulting, Inc. to provide concessions
consulting services to support the
airport-wide concessions development,
progress and forecasting for the various divisions of the Department of
Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance,
when amended as follows:
1. Insert new Section 2 to read as
follows:
“Section 2. That the options exercised by the Director of Port Control
shall not exceed the sum total of
$300,000.”
2. Renumber existing “Section 2”
to new “Section 3”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

The City Record

18
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

Rush, Hutchinson, Acting Director
Thornton, Director Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

MOTION
By Council Member Zone, seconded by Council Member Mitchell,
and unanimously carried, that the
absence of Council Members Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis Cleveland and
Shari Cloud, be and is hereby
authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:47 p.m. to meet on Monday, November 23, 2009 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chambers.

Sandra Franklin
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
Pro Tempore

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

November 11, 2009
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, November 11,
2009, at 10:30 a.m. with Director Triozzi presiding.
Present: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Acting Director
Thornton, Director Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Others: Jim Hardy, Commissioner,
Purchases and Supplies.
Natoya Walker, Acting Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 507-09.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that under
Section 101 of the Charter, Section
181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and Resolution No. 921-52, adopted by the Board
of Control on November 26, 1952, the
report of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for the sale of
scrap, personal property, and byproducts during the month of October, 2009 in the amount of $8,495.15
attached and made a part of this
resolution, is received, approved and
ordered filed.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,

Resolution No. 508-09.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Independence Office & Business
Supply Co., Inc. for an estimated
quantity of: Criminal and Civil filing
system, all items for the Department
of Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal Clerk of Courts, for
the period of one year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on August 20, 2009
under the authority of Ordinance No.
392-09, passed on April 13, 2009
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $91,323.50,
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Finance is requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of the contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 198354
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of $91,323.50.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Acting Director
Thornton, Director Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 509-09.
By Interim Director Withers.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1716-06, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
November 20, 2006, and Resolution
No. 45-09, adopted by this Board of
Control on February 16, 2009, the City
through its Director of Public Utilities, entered into Contract No. 68941
with Middough Inc. (“Consultant”),
to perform the professional services
necessary to evaluate whether Cleveland Public Power should participate
in a proposed AMP generating facility and to provide any opinions and
certifications required by the CPP
bond indenture, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities, for an aggregate
fee of $194,494.00; and
Whereas, the Division of Cleveland Public Power requires further
assessment services to complete its
feasibility evaluation and the total
compensation payable to Consultant
under Contract No. 68941 has been
exhausted; and
Whereas, the City desires to have
Consultant perform the necessary additional feasibility assessment services thereby increasing the total
amount payable under City Contract
No. 68941 for all services by $16,800.00;
now, therefore,

2076

November 18, 2009
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a first modification to Contract No. 68941 with Middough Inc. for performance of the
above-described additional assessment
services and increasing the total compensation under the Agreement from
$194,494.00 to $211,294.00. The Director
of Law shall prepare the first modification and shall include such additional provisions as that Director
deems necessary to benefit and protect the public interest.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Acting Director
Thornton, Director Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 510-09.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the conditional bid of Wingfoot
Commercial
Tire
Systems,
LLC.,
except for such terms and conditions
as are unacceptable to the Director
of Law, for an estimated quantity of
various new tires, tubes, service and
supplies, all items, for the Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the
period of two years beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on September 24, 2009, under
the authority of Section 131.17 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$150,000.00 (Net), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of the contract the following:
Requisition No. 191457,
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $15,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Acting Director
Thornton, Director Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 511-09.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that all
bids received on August 21, 2009, for
the purchase of approximately one (1)
cab & chassis with a front loading
packer body, for the Division of Waste
Collection, Department of Public Service, by the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Service, under the authority of Ordinance 591-08, passed on July 2, 2008 as

November 18, 2009
amended by Ordinance 1849-08, passed
on January 26, 2009, are rejected.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Acting Director
Thornton, Director Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 512-09.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Erie Shore Industrial
Radiator, LLC. for an estimated
quantity of radiator repair all items,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Service, for the period of two years
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on September 30, 2009, under the authority
of Section 131.17 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $85,000.00
(Net), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of the contract the following:
Requisition No. 191472
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $10,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Acting Director
Thornton, Director Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 513-09.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Ganley Chrysler Jeep
Dodge, Inc. for an estimated quantity of various Chrysler parts and
labor, all items, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the
period of three years beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on September 24, 2009,
under the authority of Section 131.17
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to $150,000,00 (1/2% in 30
Days), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of the contract the following:
Requisition No. 191456
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $20,000.00.

The City Record
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Acting Director
Thornton, Director Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 514-09.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Charlie’s Towing Service, Inc. for an
estimated quantity of various towing services, all items, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Service, for
the period of two years beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on August 21, 2009,
under the authority of Section 131.17
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to $63,316.90 (Net), is affirmed and approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Public Service is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services, which shall
provide for the immediate purchase
as the initial amount of the contract
the following:
Requisition No. 191450
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $5,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Acting Director
Thornton, Director Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 515-09.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, Resolution No. 489-09,
adopted by this Board October 28,
2009, amending Resolution No. 35109, adopted September 2, 2009, which
authorized the City to enter into an
agreement with Byron D. Myers,
Architect, for professional services
for the rehabilitation of Health Centers, incorrectly stated an authorizing ordinance number as “No. 117809”; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 489-09, adopted by
this Board October 28, 2009, is
amended by substituting “Ordinance
No. 1178-08” for “Ordinance No. 117809”, where appearing in the resolution.

2077

19
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
489-09 not expressly amended by this
resolution shall remain unchanged
and in full force and effect.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Acting Director
Thornton, Director Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 516-09.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) according
to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of
the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 120-08-002 located at 1399 East
110th Street in Ward 9; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcel for
yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 9 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is requested to execute an Official Deed
for and on behalf of the City of
Cleveland, with Cleveland Housing
Network, Inc. for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 12008-002 located at 1399 East 110th
Street, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Acting Director
Thornton, Director Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

20
Resolution No. 517-09.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) according
to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of
the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 006-20-141 located at 2045 West
48th Street in Ward 14; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Urban Community School,
abutting/adjacent landowner, has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for garden; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that under Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Urban Community School for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No.
006-20-141 located at 2045 West 48th
Street, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Acting Director
Thornton, Director Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 518-09.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) according
to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of
the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired the Westerly half
of Permanent Parcel No. 111-06-023
located at 11702 Iowa Avenue in
Ward 9; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,

The City Record
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, June Mathis, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the
City to purchase and develop the
parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 9 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is requested to execute an Official Deed
for and on behalf of the City of
Cleveland, with June Mathis for the
sale and development of the Westerly half of Permanent Parcel No.
111-06-023 located at 11702 Iowa Avenue, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Acting Director
Thornton, Director Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 519-09.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) according
to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of
the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired the Easterly half
of Permanent Parcel No. 111-06-023
located at 11702 Iowa Avenue in
Ward 9; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Alisa A. Hill, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:

2078

November 18, 2009
1. The member of Council from
Ward 9 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is requested to execute an Official Deed
for and on behalf of the City of
Cleveland, with Alisa A. Hill for the
sale and development of the Easterly half of Permanent Parcel No.
111-06-023 located at 11702 Iowa Avenue, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Acting Director
Thornton, Director Fumich, Interim
Director Feliciano and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

The City Record

November 18, 2009
CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE
____________

The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.

ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2009
11/30/09 — 12/4/09
Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.

Exam
Type

Voter registration cards.
Birth certificates.
Notarized letters or affidavits.
Social Security card.

73

74

75

EE

WR

EE

(Prom)

Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

Automobile
Repair
Worker

(Open)

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 73

Building
Manager

(Open)

AIRPORT MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR (PROMOTIONAL)

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION FOR
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:

(Open)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a PROMOTIONAL
examination for the above mentioned classification.

NOTE: Applicants must currently be
employed as a Regular Airport Field
Foreman or a Regular Airport Maintenance Worker with the City of
Cleveland.

SALARY

NOTE: Applicants must indicate below for which test (Building, Field,
or Inventory) they are applying at
the time of filing.

EE

Caseworker II

77

EE

Elevator
Inspector

EE

ment and supplies. Completes and
processes airport maintenance reports
and paperwork. Performs other jobrelated duties as required. Follows
all operations and safety policies
and safe work practices. Attends
and participates in operations and
safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration
of competence may be determined
by exam.) Wears and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.

Airport
Maintenance
Supervisor

76

78

21

(Open)

Environmental
Monitoring
Specialist II
(Open)

79

WR

Storekeeper

(Open)

80

EE

Truck Driver

(Open)

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $21,019.66 - $59,067.25 per
year.

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the following:

FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION
TO APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL
SERVICE
EXAMINATION
FROM
8:30 A.M. ON MONDAY, NOVEMBER
30, 2009 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2009.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2009.

Lease – from rental agency.
Lease – from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.
Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.
Bank statements (Within last three
months).
School registration of children.
Car insurance documents.
Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).
Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).

THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

(A) — BUILDING: A High School
Diploma from an accredited High
School program or GED is required.
A recognized two-year technical degree or an industry recognized technical certification related to, but not
limited to plumbing, HVAC, or Stationary Engineer is required. The
equivalent of three years of full
time paid experience in commercial
facilities, equipment, and infrastructure support systems is required.
(Substitution: One year of supervisory experience may substituted for
each year of Technical School lacking.) A valid State of Ohio Driver’s
License is required. Must be able to
lift and carry 50 pounds, climb ladders and stairs, and enter confined
spaces. Must have strong writing
and verbal communications skills
and a basic knowledge of Microsoft
Word, Outlook, and Excel. Must be
able
to
work
any
permanently
assigned shift in a three-shift operation with varied assigned day off.

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: EXPERIENCE EVALUATION:
Applicant’s eligibility will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the
time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general supervision, coordinates daily departmental activities.
Assigns work to maintenance personnel and schedules overtime as
necessary. Orders maintenance equip-

2079

(B) — FIELD: A High School Diploma from an accredited High school
or GED is required. An Associate’s
Degree in Aviation from an accredited college or university is required. The equivalent of three
years of full time paid experience in
airport field operations is required.
(Substitution: Three years of unit
leader supervision experience directly related to CHIA airfield configuration and CLE FAA tower communications for transverse the CLE
runway and taxiway AOA may substitute for degree.) A valid State of
Ohio Class A or B CDL is required.
Must obtain an AAAE Basic and
Advance Airport Safety & Operations certificate within two years of
hire. Must have excellent writing
skills and an expert knowledge of
runway circuit routes A, B, C, & D.
Computer skills are preferred.
(C) — INVENTORY: A High School
Diploma from an accredited High
School program or GED is required.
The equivalent of three years of full

The City Record

22
time paid warehouse experience including ordering, tallying, generating specifications, and cycle counting, is required. Must be proficient
in Microsoft Office applications.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 74
AUTOMOBILE
(OPEN)

REPAIR

WORKER

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above-mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $12.60 - $20.56 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION
TO APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL
SERVICE
EXAMINATION
FROM
8:30 A.M. ON MONDAY, NOVEMBER
30, 2009 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2009.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2009.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM
THE
ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, inspects, repairs,
adjusts, and services automobiles,
trucks, and other motorized equipment. Makes minor repairs and
adjustments to secondary units. Performs related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations
and safety training classes and

demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or G.E.D. is
required, a diploma from a High
School or Trade School specializing
in Automotive Repair is preferred.
Two years of full time paid experience in Automotive Repair is required. Must possess the required
tools to perform the duties of the
job. Must be able to lift and carry
a minimum of 50 pounds. A valid
State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position
with the City of Cleveland are
exempt. However, that when an
applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of
age, education or failure to meet
other minimum entrance requirements, the fee paid by such applicant shall be refunded to such applicant upon the applicant’s request in
writing made within ten (10) days
after the date of examination. Those
individuals
presenting
proof
of
unemployment or public assistance
AT THE TIME OF FILING will be
exempt from the fee. A copy of such
proof must be included with the
application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be submitted at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland and
who received passing Scores shall
have ten (10) additional points
added to their grades.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 75
BUILDING MANAGER (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $23,647.11 - $75,806.04 per
year.

2080

November 18, 2009
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION
TO APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL
SERVICE
EXAMINATION
FROM
8:30 A.M. ON MONDAY, NOVEMBER
30, 2009 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2009.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2009.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: EXPERIENCE EVALUATION
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the
time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general direction, manages
building
operations
and
maintenance
activities.
Supervises
and
directs the work performed by building maintenance and housekeeping
staffs Plans building operation and
maintenance work schedules. Performs other job-related duties as required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may
be determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment
in accordance with Divisional policy
at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Business/Public Administration is
preferred. Three years of full time
paid managerial experience in the
Building Facility Maintenance field
is required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position
with the City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an
examination on the basis of age,
education or failure to meet other
minimum entrance requirements, the

November 18, 2009
fee paid by such applicant shall be
refunded to such applicant upon the
applicant’s request in writing made
within ten (10) days after the date
of examination. Those individuals
presenting proof of unemployment
or public assistance AT THE TIME
OF FILING will be exempt from the
fee. A copy of such proof must be
included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be submitted at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.

The City Record
individuals. Has general supervision
of, and correlates the work in a district office or department of work.
Assists in the development and
maintenance of effective case plans.
Performs other related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may
be determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment
in accordance with Divisional policy
at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 76
CASEWORKER II (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $10.00 - $19.61 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION
TO APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL
SERVICE
EXAMINATION
FROM
8:30 A.M. ON MONDAY, NOVEMBER
30, 2009 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2009.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2009.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: EXPERIENCE EVALUATION
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the
time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATIOOR RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

A High School Diploma or G.E.D. is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree from
an accredited four-year college or
university in Psychology, Sociology,
Social Work, or related field is
required. Two years of full time
paid experience in social work is
required. (Substitution: Two years
of experience may substitute for
each year of college education lacking.) The ability to speak a second
language is preferred. A valid State
of Ohio Driver’s License is required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position
with the City of Cleveland are
exempt. However, that when an
applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of
age, education or failure to meet
other minimum entrance requirements, the fee paid by such applicant shall be refunded to such applicant upon the applicant’s request in
writing made within ten (10) days
after the date of examination. Those
individuals
presenting
proof
of
unemployment or public assistance
AT THE TIME OF FILING will be
exempt from the fee. A copy of such
proof must be included with the
application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be submitted at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 77
ELEVATOR INSPECTOR (OPEN)

DUTIES OF THE POSITION

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.

Under general supervision, supervises the administration of casework
by Caseworkers and provides case
management services to eligible

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance

SALARY

2081

23
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $14.23 - $24.00 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION
TO APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL
SERVICE
EXAMINATION
FROM
8:30 A.M. ON MONDAY, NOVEMBER
30, 2009 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2009.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2009.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: EXPERIENCE EVALUATION:
Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the
time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general supervision, makes
inspections of passenger and freight
elevators for the purpose of insuring compliance with laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations governing their safety and operation.
Performs related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations
and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Three years of full time
paid experience in the installation,
construction, inspection, or repair of
elevators is required. Must be able
to lift and carry a minimum of thirty pounds. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position

The City Record

24
with the City of Cleveland are
exempt. However, that when an
applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of
age, education or failure to meet
other minimum entrance requirements, the fee paid by such applicant shall be refunded to such applicant upon the applicant’s request in
writing made within ten (10) days
after the date of examination. Those
individuals presenting proof of unemployment or public assistance AT
THE TIME OF FILING will be
exempt from the fee. A copy of such
proof must be included with the
application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be submitted at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 78
ENVIRONMENTAL
MONITORING
SPECIALIST II (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $14.18 - $24.37 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION
TO APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL
SERVICE
EXAMINATION
FROM
8:30 A.M. ON MONDAY, NOVEMBER
30, 2009 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2009.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2009.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: EXPERIENCE EVALUATION
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the
time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR

RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.

November 18, 2009
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
This individual is responsible for
daily monitoring of equipment at
multiple air monitoring sites. Collects particulate samples and compiles data from a variety of sources
(e.g., strip chart, continuous air
analysis equipment, high volume air
sampling
filters,
etc.)
Measures
ambient and stack concentration of
pollutants. Posts information onto
state and federal reporting forms or
downloads to OEPA. Determines
ambient air monitoring compliance
for
Cuyahoga
County.
Prepares
information such as quality index
and source test reports. Provides
training to new monitoring staff.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may
be determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment
in accordance with Divisional policy
at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. An Associate’s Degree in
Environmental Science, Chemistry,
Physics, Biology, Geology, Engineering, Mathematics, or any other
science-related field from an accredited college or university is required, a Bachelor’s Degree is preferred. The equivalent of two years
of full time paid experience as an
environmental air pollution monitoring specialist is required. Must have
a valid State of Ohio Driver’s
License.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination
on the basis of age, education or failure to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant upon the applicant’s request in writing made within ten (10)
days after the date of examination.
Those individuals presenting proof of
unemployment or public assistance
AT THE TIME OF FILING will be
exempt from the fee. A copy of such
proof must be included with the
application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be submitted at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with

2082

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 79
STOREKEEPER (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $10.00 - $20.16 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION
TO APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL
SERVICE
EXAMINATION
FROM
8:30 A.M. ON, MONDAY, NOVEMBER
30, 2009 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2009.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2009.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
TYPE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, has immediate
charge of a small storeroom or of a
supply yard. Supervises the receiving and issuance of materials and
supplies. Performs related duties as
required. Performs related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may
be determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment
in accordance with Divisional policy
at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:

November 18, 2009
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Three years if full time
paid storeroom or related experience
is required. Supervisory experience
is strongly preferred. Must possess
basic computer skills, especially
Microsoft Office Suites and must be
able to attain proficiency on various
inventory software packages. Must
be knowledgeable in the various
machines associated with the automated office (e.g.: Computer, fax,
copier,
postage
meter,
adding
machine, etc.). A valid State of Ohio
Driver’s License is required. Must be
able to lift and carry 75 pounds
upon occasion with the use of equipment or the assistance of others.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position
with the City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an
examination on the basis of age,
education or failure to meet other
minimum entrance requirements, the
fee paid by such applicant shall be
refunded to such applicant upon the
applicant’s request in writing made
within ten (10) days after the date
of examination. Those individuals
presenting proof of unemployment
or public assistance AT THE TIME
OF FILING will be exempt from the
fee. A copy of such proof must be
included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be submitted at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 80
TRUCK DRIVER (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an OPEN examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $12.50 - $19.22 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION
TO APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL
SERVICE
EXAMINATION
FROM
8:30 A.M. ON, MONDAY, NOVEMBER
30, 2009 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2009.

The City Record
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2009.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: EXPERIENCE EVALUATION:
Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the
time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, drives a truck
and assists support personnel of the
truck in the performance of work
for which the truck is operated. Performs related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations
and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam). Wears and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A valid State of Ohio Class
A or B Commercial Driver’s License
is required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position
with the City of Cleveland are exempt. However, when an applicant
is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or failure to meet other minimum entrance requirements, the fee
paid by such applicant shall be
refunded to such applicant upon the
applicant’s request in writing made
within ten (10) days after the date
of examination. Any applicant who
can provide proof of unemployment,
public assistance, or indigence is
exempt from the filing fee.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with

2083

25
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President
November 18, 2009

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2009
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 09-224: 2320 Schell
Avenue (Ward 16)
Tony Krol, owner, appeals to erect
an 8' x 24.6' open porch to the front
of a one family dwelling on a 45' x
216.50' parcel in an A1 One-Family
District, where an open front porch
may not project more than 6-feet
and the proposed porch will project
8-feet, contrary to the provisions of
Section 357.13(b)(4) of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 09-225: 5729 Fleet Avenue (Ward 12)
The David Wolfson Trust, owner,
appeals for a change of use from a
print shop to a painting contractor’s
office and warehouse an existing
three-story building on a 40' x 150'
parcel in a Local Retail Business
District; subject to the limitations of
Section 359.01(a) no substitution of
an existing nonconforming use shall
be permitted except as a variance
under the terms of Chapter 329, and
no substitution or other change in
such nonconforming use to other
than a conforming use shall be permitted except by special permit
from the Board of Zoning Appeals.
Such special permit may be issued
only if the Board finds after public
hearing that such change is no more
harmful or objectionable than the
previous nonconforming use in floor
or other space occupied, in volume
of trade or production, in kind of
goods sold or produced, in daily
hours or other period of use, in the
type or number of persons to occupy or be attracted to the premises
or in any other characteristic of the
new use as compared with the previous use, according to Section
359.01(a) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 09-226: 6918 Lorain
Avenue (Ward 17)
GM Realty Company, owner, and
Westside Automotive, Inc., lessee,
appeal to establish use for a repair
garage and used car sales, proposed
to be on consolidated parcels in a
Local Retail Business District; subject to the limitations of Section
343.01, the use for a vehicle repair
garage is not permitted and first
allowed in a Semi-Industry District,
provided it is located not less than
100 feet from a residence district;
and a 10-foot wide landscaping transition strip is required along the
north side of the lot, where it abuts
a Two-Family District in accordance
with the landscaping requirements
in Sections 352.08 through 352.11 in
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.

The City Record

26
Calendar No. 09-228: 740 East 152nd
Street (Ward 10)
City of God Baptist Fellowship,
owner, appeals for a change of use
from a day care to a church a twostory building on a 77' x 200' lot in
a General Retail Business District
and the provisions in Section 343.11,
require that a church shall be 15feet from any adjoining premises in
a residence district not used for a
similar purpose and the lot abuts a
Two-Family District; no landscaping
is proposed contrary to Section
350.10 that requires a 6-foot width of
landscaping along East 152nd Street
and Pepper Avenue where the parking lot abuts the street.
Calendar No. 09-230: 7050-7100 Denison Avenue (Ward 17)
Alex Abou Chebl, vendor, and
Thahabieh Assad, vendee, and Mike
Assad, tenant, appeal for a change
of use from an auto service garage
to a retail store proposed to be on
consolidated parcels in a Semi-Industry District; and contrary to Section
357.07(a) parking is proposed in the
required, specific 10-foot setback
that is shown on the zoning map;
and a 6-foot wide landscape strip is
required along the front of the lot
where the parking abuts Denison
Avenue, as stated in Section 352.10
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.

November 18, 2009

The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 09-212: 15515-19 Waterloo Road
Negative Space Realty LLC appealed to change use from a drug
store to a tattoo and body piercing
studio the first floor of a mixed
used building in a Local Retail business district.
Calendar No. 09-214: 1980 East 57th
Street
WJM Enterprises, Inc. appealed to
install 7-foot tall black vinyl coated
chain link fence along the side yard
of a parcel in Midtown Mixed Use
District-1.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 09-213: Blaze Building
Corporation
Blaze Building Corporation appealed
from a Finding of Noncompliance by
the Mayor’s Office of Equal Opportunity.
Calendar No. 08-205: 4965 Broadview
Road – Violation Notice
CSX Railroad, owner, and CBS
Outdoor, tenant, appealed from a
Notice of Violation issued by the
Building and Housing Department
for failure to comply with Section
350.10(j) of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances.

Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2009
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, November 16, 2009, the following appeals
were heard by the Board.
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 09-216: 4656 West 157th
Street
Dennis Frinzl appealed to erect a
front porch to a single family
dwelling in a One-Family District.
The following
missed:

appeal

was

Dis-

Calendar No. 09-221: 3651 East 55th
Street
J & G Development Corporation,
owner, and Jennie Hurt, tenant appealed to erect a pre-manufactured
wheelchair lift in the front yard of
a parcel in a Two-Family District.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 09-215: 339 Skyview
Road postponed to January 4,
2010.
Calendar No. 09-218: 1616 West 25th
Street postponed to January 4,
2010.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on November 9, 2009 were
adopted and approved on November
16, 2009.

Calendar No. 08-220: 4965 Broadview
Road
CSX Railroad, owner, and CBS
Outdoor, tenant, appealed to install
automotive changeable copy signs
on an existing 70-foot tall billboard
in a General Industry District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
October 28, 2009
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
*

*

*

Docket A-149-09.
RE: Appeal of Sunmola Obasun,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 4146 East
106th Street from a LIMITATION ON
THE PERMIT, dated April 30, 2009
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to uphold the Violation Notice, to find that it was
issued properly. The property is REMANDED at this time to the Department of Building and Housing for
supervision and any required further action. Motion so in order.

2084

Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-230-09.
RE: Appeal of Bridget Harper,
Owner of the Residential Property
located on the premises known as
15618 School Avenue from a LIMITATION ON THE PERMITS, dated
June 17, 2009 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
No action this date; the docket
will be rescheduled after the Building Department does an inspection
of the property and submit a report
to the Board.
*

*

*

Docket A-234-09.
RE: Appeal of Smith Facing &
Supply, Owner of the Property located on the premises known as 1857
Carter Road from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATON — FIRE CODE of the
Chief of the Division of Fire, dated
May 18, 2009, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order to DENY the request for a
variance to delete the fire protection
system, noting that the system is
required for areas of the building.
The property is REMANDED to the
Division of Fire for review and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Sullivan and
seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-251-09.
RE: Appeal of Hapsad Trust,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two and
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
2673 East 124th Street from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated July 1,
2009 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to uphold the Violation Notice (and find that it was
issued properly), and to require the
Appellant to obtain all required permits within thirty (30) days; the
property is currently boarded and
should remain boarded during the
reconstruction period and the exterior work is to be done first. The
Appellant is granted six (6) months
in which to abate all violations on
the property. The property is REMANDED at this time to the Department of Building and Housing for
supervision and any required further action. Motion so in order.

The City Record

November 18, 2009
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-252-09.
RE: Appeal of David Johnson,
Owner of the M Mercantile — Retail
Shops, Carry-out Food Shops One
Story Masonry Property located on
the premises known as 1717 Denison
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated June 30, 2009 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to require immediate removal of all stored materials on the property, and to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to finish tuck-pointing, noting that
no temporary partitions or coverage
shall be put up during that period
of time. The property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-253-09.
RE: Appeal of Jeffrey Liebenguth
& Gail Liebenguth, Owners of the
Two and One/half Story Frame
Two-Family
Residential
Property
located on the premises known 3730
Melbourne Avenue from a NOTICE
OF
VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated July 1, 2009
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that, per
the survey, the fence is on the
Appellant’s property and therefore,
by statute, must be maintained by
the Appellant’s. The property is REMANDED at this time to the Department of Building and Housing for
supervision and any required further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Saab. Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-254-09.
RE: Appeal of Great Lakes Fence
Company, Owner of the A-3 Assembly — Recreation or Religious Facilities One Story Metal Frame Property located on the premises known
as 14713 Lakeshore Boulevard from
a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — NO
PERMIT/NO
INSPECTION,
dated
January 9, 2009 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with

the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
A motion is in order at this time
to find that the inspector was proper in evaluating the fence and citing the Appellant for no inspection,
and that there were defects and
loose posts. A motion is in order at
this time to require the Appellant to
repair any loose boards or material
defects, solidify any loose posts, to
extend the labor warranty for two
(2) years, and to obtain a letter
from the owner stating that he is
satisfied with the results. A variance is granted for the lack of
inspections based upon the testimony of the Appellant and the long
standing experience and reputation
of Great Lakes Fence Company. The
Board concurs that the method of
installation described by the fence
company is adequate. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-255-09.
RE: Appeal of JP Morgan Chase
Bank, fka Washington Mutual Bank,
Mortgagee of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence Two 7
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
10202 Somerset Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated June 25, 2009 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Violation Notice was properly issued,
no Appellants were present; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.

27
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Saab. Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

*

*

Docket A-258-09.
RE: Appeal of Seifullah Bukhari,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two Story Frame Property located
on the premises known as 3269 East
56th Place from a 14 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER — MS, dated
February 10, 2009 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to uphold the 14
Day Condemnation Order — MS, and
to grant the Appellant forty-five
(45) days in which to complete
abatement of all exterior violations,
and ninety (90) days in which to
complete abatement of all violations
on the property. The property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-256-09.
RE: Appeal of Gerald Kidd, Owner
of the One Dwelling Unit Single
Residence Two and One/half Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 12333 Castlewood Avenue from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated June 5, 2009 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to complete abatement of the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision and any required further action. Motion so in order. Motioned by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Saunders.

2085

*

Docket A-257-09.
RE: Appeal of John R. Malone,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two and
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
11017 Mt. Overlook Avenue from a
CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated March 27, 2009
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-257-09 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
November 11, 2009.

*
*

*

Docket A-259-09.
RE: Appeal of Dr. Robert Hobbs,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two and
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
11408 Whitmore Avenue from a CONDEMNATIONO ORDER — MAIN
STRUCTURE dated March 24, 2009
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to uphold the Condemnation Order and to find that it
was issued properly. The property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action, noting no attendance
by the appellant and no work done
on the property. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.

The City Record

28
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Saab. Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-260-09.
RE: Appeal of Lottie Sims, Owner
of the Two Dwelling Units TwoFamily Residence Two and One/half
Story Wood Frame Property located
on the premises known as 1327 East
66th Street from a 30 DAY DETERIORATED CONDEMNATION ORDER
— MS, dated April 14, 1997 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
30 Day Deteriorated Condemnation
Order was properly issued and to
grant the Appellant thirty (30) days
in which to obtain permits and six
(6) months in which to abate the
violations. The property is REMANDED at this time to the Department of Building and Housing for
supervision and any required further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Saab. Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-261-09.
RE: Appeal of Lottie Sims, Owner
of the Two Dwelling Units Two-family Residence Two and One/half
Story Wood Frame Property located
on the premises known as 2298 East
90th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated June 19, 2009 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Condemnation Order was properly
issued and to grant the Appellant
thirty (30) days in which to obtain
permits and six (6) months in which
to abate the violations. The property is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Saab. Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-263-09.
RE: Appeal of Michael C. Garner,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two and
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
1393 East 93rd Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated June 27, 2009 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring

compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Condemnation Order was properly
issued. The property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision and any required further action, noting no attendance by the
Appellant and no work done on the
property. Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded
by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-264-09.
RE: Appeal of Quality Stamping
Products, Owner of the VL Vacant
Lot Property located on the premises known as 5110 Praha Avenue
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated
July 17, 2009 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant ninety (90) days in which
to complete abatement of the violations. The property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision and any required further action. Motion so in order. Motioned by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-265-09.
RE: Appeal of Beautiful Signage,
Ltd. & Marketing Holdings Inc.,
Owner of the S-1 Storage — Moderate Hazard (Combustibles) HighRise Building located on the premises known as 2000 West 14th Street
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MAIN STRUCTURE, dated July 22,
2008 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
No action this date, the docket is
rescheduled for November 11, 2009.
*

*

*

Docket A-270-09.
RE: Appeal of D & D Landscaping Services, Ltd., Owner of One
Dwelling Unit Single Family Residence
One
and
One/half
Story
Masonry Property located on the
premises known as 7318 Dudley
Avenue from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER — MS, dated June
6, 2007 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).

2086

November 18, 2009
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Condemnation Order was property
issued, and to DENY the Appellant’s
appeal request. The property is REMANDED at this time to the Department of Building and Housing for
supervision and any required further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-274-09.
RE: Appeal of Patricia Lewis,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two and
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
12109 Matherson Avenue from a
CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN
STRUCTURE
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated June 25, 2009 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain permits and three (3)
months in which to abate the exterior violations, including the foundation problems; and six (6) months
in which to abate all violations on
the property. The property is REMANDED at this time to the Department of Building and Housing for
supervision and any required further action. Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded
by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-279-09.
RE: Appeal of Bojack’s Meat &
Poultry, Inc., Owner of the S-1 Storage — Moderate Hazard (Combustibles) High-Rise Building located on the premises known as 2000
West 14th Street from a CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE, dated July 22, 2008 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-279-09 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
November 11, 2009.
*

*

*

Docket A-309-09.
RE: Appeal of Downtown Buildings LLC, Owner of the Property
located on the premises known as
2079 East 4th Street from an ADJUDICATION ORDER, dated August
21, 2009 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).

The City Record

November 18, 2009
No action this date, the docket is
rescheduled for December 9, 2009.
*

*

*

Docket A-335-09.
RE: Appeal of Jessica Diann Harris, Owner of the Three Dwelling
Units Three-Family Residence Two
and One/half Story Frame Property
located on the premises known as
2437 East 89th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated July 24, 2009 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-335-09 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
November 11, 2009.
*

*

*

Docket A-351-09.
RE: Appeal of Cleveland Museum
of Art, Owner of the Property located on the premises known as 11150
East Boulevard from ADJUDICATION ORDERS, dated April 2, 2009,
June 16, 2009, and August 7, 2009 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variances required for the items listed
in the October 13, 2009 letter by the
architect, which outlines his various
solutions and justifications to the
existing conditions of the property.
The Appellant has agreed to include
the safety analysis for this and the
other variances are granted. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

Docket A-207-08 — Desiree Schmitt
— 716 College Avenue:
This case was heard February 4,
2009, at which time the Appellant
was granted seven (7) days in
which to obtain permits and six (6)
months in which to abate all violations on the property.
Appellant would request another
six (6) months in which to complete
abatement of the violations on the
property.
No action this date.
*

*

*

*

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-205-09—Sonia Sanchez.
A-211-09—Vera Belvy.
A-229-09—Roy O. Robinson.
A-231-09—Jacqueline Goodman.
A-232-09—Velpore Young.
A-233-09—Cindi & Pete Ciccotti.
A-235-09—Samuel Orr.
A-236-09—Onzo & Bobbie J. Randle.
A-237-09—Onzo & Bobbie J. Randle.
A-240-09—Marjorie E. Shew.
A-241-09—LDC Construction.
A-242-09—LDC Construction.
A-244-09—Petrugkuza, Inc.
A-245-09—Demetrius Bennett.
A-246-09—Darwin W. McClellan.
A-247-09—George Zaboura.
A-249-09—Onzo & Bobbie J. Randle.
A-250-09—Plymouth Park Tax Services, LLC.
A-262-09—Samuel Orr.
A-281-09—Dawson Temple.

*

EXTENSION OF TIME:

*

BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant two (2) weeks in which
to make certain that all the permits
are still valid, and three (3) months
in which to complete abatement of
the violations. The property is REMANDED at this time to the Department of Building and Housing for
supervision and any required further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Saab. Absent: Mr. Gallagher.

*

Docket A-208-08 — Tom Bell —
2441-43 Professor Street:
This case was heard February 18,
2009, at which time the Violation
Notice, based on the evidence presented, was properly issued; granting the Appellant six (6) months in
which to abate the violations. Appellant is requesting an additional six
(6) months because he has been
unable to secure a loan which is
needed
to
pay
for
the
needed
improvements.

Yeas:
Messrs.
Saab,
Saunders,
Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Denk. Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

AMENDED RESOLUTION FROM
SEPTEMBER 30, 2009:

29
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

FROM: …. to DENY the appeal
and to REMAND the property at
1022 East 149th Street to the Department of Building and Housing for
supervision and any required further action. Motioned by Mr. Saab
and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
TO: .… to grant the Appellant thirty (30) days in which to obtain permits and ninety (90) days in which
to abate the violations. The property is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motioned by Mr. Saab
and seconded by Mr. Bradley.

2087

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Minutes as presented by the
Secretary, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
October 14, 2009
Yeas:
Messrs.
Saab,
Saunders,
Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Denk. Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
November 11, 2009
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
*

*

*

Docket A-168-09.
RE: Appeal of The Alex Solomon
Family Ltd. Partner-ship, Owner of
the A-2 Assembly — Nite Clubs,
Restaurant Property located on the
premises known as 5100 Pearl Road
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
UNAUTHORIZED/ILLEGAL USE, dated
April 15, 2009 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-168-08 has been POSTPONED, to be rescheduled for a
later date.
*

Docket A-210-09 — Veil Holdings
— 1022 East 149th Street:

*

*

*

Docket A-238-09.
RE: Appeal of Triple R Associates, Ltd., Owner of the M Mercantile — Retail Shops, Carry-out Food
Shops One Story Masonry Property
located on the premises known as
5703 Superior Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated May 7, 2009 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to uphold the Condemnation Order — Main Structure,
and find that it was issued properly, and to DENY the appeal for additional time, noting that the Appellant was not present. The property
is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Hous-

The City Record

30
ing for supervision and any required
further action, with the recommendation that a team inspection be
conducted to further evaluate the
property. Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded
by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-248-09.
RE: Appeal of Sip One, LLC,
Owner of the M Mercantile — Retail
Shops, Carry-out Food Shops, One
Story Masonry Property located on
the premises known as 838 Eddy
Road from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INERIOR/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated June 29, 2009 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to uphold the Violation Notice, and to find that it was
issued properly, and to grant the
appellant ninety (90) days in which
to present an approvable plan of
action to the Building Department;
the property is to remain secured
and the grounds debris free during
this period of time. The property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-257-09.
RE: Appeal of John R. Malone,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two and
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
11017 Mt. Overlook Avenue from a
CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated March 27, 2009
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain all permits, and to grant
the Appellant three (3) months in
which to abate all violations on the
property. The property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action, noting that the Building
Department can work with the
Appellant for more time if it is warranted. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-265-09.
RE: Appeal of Beautiful Signage,
Ltd. & Marketing Holdings Inc.,
Owner of the S-1 Storage — Moderate Hazard (Combustibles) High-

Rise Building located on the premises known as 2000 West 14th Street
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MAIN STRUCTURE, dated July 22,
2008 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
No action this date, the docket is
rescheduled for November 25, 2009.
*

*

*

Docket A-269-09.
RE: Appeal of Bozo Gazic, Owner
of the One Dwelling Unit Single
Family Residence One and One/half
Story Frame Property located on the
premises known as 4801 Jewett Avenue from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER — MS, dated January
14, 2008 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, after reviewing the condition of the property
and the proposed use of the property, a motion is in order at this time
to DENY the appeal and REMAND
the property at 4801 Jewett Avenue
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action, noting the
objections of the neighborhood and
the surrounding property owners.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Saunders
and
seconded
by
Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-271-09.
RE: Appeal of My-Linh Nguyen,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 2267 East 103rd
Street from a 14 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER — MS, dated January
17, 2008 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain all permits and four (4)
months in which to abate the violations. The property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision and any required further action. Motion so in order. Motioned by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-272-09.
RE: Appeal of Richard Bros. Construction Inc., Owner of the Three
Dwelling Units Three-Family Residence
Two
and
One/half
Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 1597 East 84th
Street
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE of

2088

November 18, 2009
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, dated April
23, 2009, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order to grant the Appellant thirty
(30) days in which to obtain all permits and complete the interior structural repairs, and six months in
which to abate all other violations.
The property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-275-09.
RE: Appeal of Holly Hawk, Owner
of the Two Dwelling Units TwoFamily Residence Two and One/half
Story Frame Property located on the
premises known as 877 Lakeview
Road from a CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE, dated
June 25, 2009 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
appeal and to REMAND the property at 877 Lakeview Road to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-276-09.
RE: Appeal of Kakiesha Cole,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two Story
Frame
Two-Family
Residential
Property located on the premises
known as 3223 West 46th Street
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MAIN STRUCTURE & GARAGE,
dated July 21, 2009 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-276-09 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
December 9, 2009.
*

*

*

Docket A-279-09.
RE: Appeal of Bojack’s Meat &
Poultry, Inc., Owner of the S-1 Storage — Moderate Hazard (Combustibles) High-Rise Building located on the premises known as 2000
West 14th Street from a CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE, dated July 22, 2008 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
No action this date, the docket is
rescheduled for November 25, 2009.

The City Record

November 18, 2009
Docket A-335-09.
RE: Appeal of Jessica Diann Harris, Owner of the Three Dwelling
Units Three-Family Residence Two
and One/half Story Frame Property
located on the premises known as
2437 East 89th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated July 24, 2009 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain all permits and six (6)
months in which to complete abatement of all violations. The property
is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action, noting that with satisfactory progress can result in an
award of additional time. Motion so
in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-367-09.
RE: Appeal of Cuyahoga County
Board of Commissioners, Owner of
the Property located on the premises known 3730 Melbourne Avenue
from an ADJUDICATION ORDER,
dated October 5, 2009 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variances required to permit the wall to
be constructed as they requested,
noting the clarifications presented
by the Appellant. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas:
Messrs
Denk,
Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-372-09.
RE: Appeal of Pat Conway, Owner
of the Property located on the
premises known as 1947 West 28th
Street
from
an
ADJUDICATION
ORDER, dated October 27, 2009 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variances required and permit the tank
foundation and fence to straddle the
property lines, noting the easement.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Saunders and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

EXTENSION OF TIME:
Docket A-90-09 — Marcia Brentson
— 1867 West 47th Street:
This case was heard June 10, 2009,
at which time the Appellant was
granted four (4) months in which to

complete the exterior maintenance
violations.
A motion is in order at this time
to grant the Appellant the requested six (6) month “Extension Of
Time” in which to complete abatement of the violations. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-91-09 — Marcia Brentson
— 1855-57 West 47th Street:
This case was heard June 10, 2009,
at which time the Appellant was
granted four (4) months in which to
complete the exterior maintenance
violations.
A motion is in order at this time
to grant the Appellant the requested six (6) month “Extension Of
Time” in which to complete abatement of the violations. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

The property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded by
Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Minutes as presented by the
Secretary, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
October 28, 2009
Yeas:
Messrs.
Saab,
Saunders,
Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Denk. Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE

*

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-149-09—Sunmola Obasun.
A-234-09—Smith Facing & Supply.
A-251-09—Hapsad Trust.
A-252-09—David Johnson.
A-253-09—Jeffrey & Gail Liebenguth.
A-254-09—Great Lakes Fence Company.
A-255-09—JP Morgan Chase Bank.
A-256-09—Gerald Kidd.
A-258-09—Seifullah Bukhari.
A-259-09—Dr. Robert Hobbs.
A-260-09—Lottie Sims.
A-261-09—Lottie Sims.
A-263-09—Michael C. Garner.
A-264-09—Quality Stamping Products.
A-270-09—D & D Landscaping Services, Ltd.
A-274-09—Patricia Lewis.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
AMENDED RESOLUTION FROM
OCTOBER 28, 2009:
Docket A-149-09 — Sunmola Obasun — 4146 East 106th Street:
FROM: . . . to uphold the Violation
Notice, to find that it was issued
properly. The property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action. Motioned by Mr. Saab and
seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
TO: . . . to grant the Appellant
nine (9) months in which to complete abatement of all violations.

2089

31

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, December 2, 2009
1:00 p.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a public hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
Wednesday, December 2, 2009 at 1:00
p.m., to consider the following ordinance now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 1418-09.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance expanding the LiveWork Overlay District to include the
land between East 34th Street and
East 36th Street; south of Saint Clair
Avenue and shown on the attached
map (Map Change No. 2290, Sheet
No. 4).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Joseph C. Cimperman
Chairman
Committee on City Planning
_____
November 18, 2009 and November 25, 2009

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the append-

The City Record

32
ed schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”

THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2009 AT
11:00 A.M., THE DIVISION OF
WASTE COLLECTION, 5600 CARNEGIE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44103.
November 11, 2009 and November 18, 2009
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009
File No. 214-09 — Department of
Community Development Kitchen
and Dining Room Renovation for
the
North
Point
Transitional
Men’s Shelter, for the Division of
Architecture, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 869-08, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
July 8, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER. (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING TUESDAY,
DECEMBER 1, 2009 AT 2:00 P.M.,
THE NORTH POINT BUILDING,
1550 SUPERIOR AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44113.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2009
File No. 212-09 — Automated Call Center, for the Division of Cleveland
Municipal Court, Department of
Finance, No Ordinance.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2009
AT 10:00 A.M., THE CLEVELAND
MUNICIPAL CLERK OF COURTS,
JUSTICE CENTER, 1200 ONTARIO
STREET, LEVEL 2, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44113.
File No. 213-09 — Purchase of Various
Types of Valves, Actuators and
Appurtenances and Labor and Materials to Maintain and Repair Various Types of Valves, Actuators and
Appurtenances, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 696-09, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland June 8,
2009.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009 AT 2:30
P.M., THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING
CLEVELAND, 1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
November 11, 2009 and November 18, 2009
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2009
File No. 211-09 — Processing of Recyclable Materials — Contract EW
Recycling, for the Division of
Waste Collection and Disposal,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 54309, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 8, 2009.

File No. 215-09 — Ridge Road Streets
Facility Wall Repair, for the Division of Architecture, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. pending, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, pending.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER. (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING TUESDAY,
DECEMBER 1, 2009 AT 10:00 A.M.,
THE RIDGE ROAD STREETS
FACILITY, 3727 RIDGE ROAD,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44144.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
November 18, 2009 and November 25, 2009
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2009
File No. 216-09 — Health Facility
Upgrades Bid Package C-Interior
Renovation and Window Replacement, for the Division of Architecture, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 487-07, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 4,
2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF

2090

November 18, 2009
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER. (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2009
AT 10:00 A.M., THE J. GLEN
SMITH HEALTH CENTER, 11100
ST.
CLAIR
AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44110.
November 18, 2009 and November 25, 2009
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 16, 2009
File No. 217-09 — Various Fuel Dispensing System Maintenance and
Repair, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 686-07, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland June 11, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2009 AT 10:30
A.M., THE DIVISION OF MOTOR
VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE,
4150
EAST
49TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
November 18, 2009 and November 25, 2009

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
____________
Res. No. 1352-08.
By Council Members Reed, Brady,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
East 104th Street.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of East 104th Street, as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being all that
portion of East 104th Street (50 ft.
wide) extending Southerly from the
Southerly line of Park Heights Road
S.E. (40 ft. wide) to its Southerly
terminus.
Description
approved
by
Greg
Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys
and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

November 18, 2009
Res. No. 1059-09.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
Linton Avenue S.E.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Linton Avenue S.E., as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being the most
Westerly 40 feet of Linton Avenue
S.E. (50 feet wide) West of East
55th Street as now widened.
Description
approved
by
Greg
Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys
and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Res. No. 1413-09.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
East 59th Street.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of East 59th Street as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
East 59th Street
Being all that portion of East 59th
Street bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Westerly line of
East 59th Street (49 feet wide) at
its intersection with the Northerly
line of Euclid Avenue (80 feet
wide);
Thence Northerly along said Westerly line to its intersection with the
Southerly line of Chester Avenue,
N.E. (width varies);
Thence Northeasterly in a direct
line to the Easterly line of East 59th
Street at its intersection with the
Southerly line of Chester Avenue,
N.E.;

The City Record
Thence Southerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the
Northerly line of Euclid Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line to the place of beginning.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Res. No. 1414-09.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
East 61st Street.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of East 61st Street, as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
EAST 61ST STREET VACATION
Being all that portion of East 61st
Street bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Westerly line of
East 61st Street (44 feet wide) at its
intersection with the Northerly line
of Euclid Avenue (80 feet wide);
Thence Northerly along said Westerly line to its intersection with the
Southerly line of Chester Avenue,
N.E. (width varies);
Thence Northeasterly in a direct
line to the Easterly line of East 61st
Street at its intersection with the
Southerly line of Chester Avenue,
N.E.;
Thence Southerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the
Northerly line of Euclid Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line to the place of beginning.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

2091

33
Res. No. 1612-09.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An
emergency
resolution
withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 Liquor Permit at 7002 Cedar
Avenue, and repealing Resolution No.
1129-09, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 Liquor Permit to 7002 Cedar
Avenue by Resolution No. 1129-09
adopted by the Council on August 5,
2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
Liquor Permit to Cedar 70, Inc., DBA
Upstate Market, 7002 Cedar Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent
Number 1351124 be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1129-09, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Res. No. 1613-09.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 3363
East 93rd Street, and repealing Resolution No. 1133-09, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 3363
East 93rd Street by Resolution No.
1133-09 adopted by the Council on
August 5, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Petrobarrels,
Inc., DBA Sunoco Family Foods Express, 3363 East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number
68577350005 be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1133-09, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the

34
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Res. No. 1614-09.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An
emergency
resolution
withdrawing objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit at 5611 Woodland Avenue and
repealing
Resolution
No.
1283-09,
objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of liquor license of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Jai Ambaji,
Inc., DBA Hometown Grocery, 5611
Woodland Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent No. 4225578, adopted by the Council on September 14,
2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Jai Ambaji, Inc., DBA Hometown Grocery,
5611 Woodland Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44104, Permanent No. 4225578
be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1283-09,
containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Res. No. 1615-09.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of Liquor License
of a D1 and D2 Liquor Permit to
2300 Euclid Avenue, Rooms 100, 101
and patio.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a transfer of Liquor License of a D1 and
D2 Liquor Permit from Cleveland
State University, DBA The Shire, 2121
Euclid Avenue, basement S/W corner, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number 15504980020 to Compass
Group USA, Inc., DBA Elements
Bistro on Euclid, 2300 Euclid Avenue, Rooms 100, 101 & patio, Cleve-

The City Record
land, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number
16679280015; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a transfer
of Liquor License of a D1 and D2
Liquor Permit from Cleveland State
University, DBA The Shire, 2121 Euclid Avenue, basement S/W corner,
Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent
Number
15504980020
to
Compass
Group USA, Inc., DBA Elements
Bistro on Euclid, 2300 Euclid Avenue, Rooms 100, 101 & patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number
16679280015, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

2092

November 18, 2009
Res. No. 1616-09.
By Council Member Keane.
An
emergency
resolution
withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 Liquor Permit at 14910 Lorain
Avenue, and repealing Resolution No.
1173-09, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 Liquor Permit to 14910 Lorain
Avenue by Resolution No. 1173-09
adopted by the Council on August 5,
2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
Liquor Permit to Prakash,Inc., DBA
Jr’s. Mini Market, 14910 Lorain Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number 7057634 be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1173-09, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Res. No. 1617-09.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting to New D3A Liquor Permit at
3837 Ridge Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
D3A Liquor Permit at Ridge Road
Castle #3837,Inc., 3837 Ridge Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44144, Permanent
Number 7366153; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and

November 18, 2009
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New D3A
Liquor Permit at Ridge Road Castle
#3837, Inc., 3837 Ridge Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44144, Permanent Number
7366153; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

The City Record
Res. No. 1618-09.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit at
12408 Union Avenue, and repealing
Resolution No. 1148-09, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit to
12408 Union Avenue by Resolution
No. 1148-09 adopted by the Council
on August 5, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1,
C2 and D6 Liquor Permit to New
Coast, Inc., DBA Union Deli, 12408
Union Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent Number 6371287 be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1148-09, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

35
Res. No. 1619-09.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C2 Liquor
Permit at 13712 Lorain Avenue, and
repealing Resolution No. 1154-09, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C2 Liquor Permit to 13712
Lorain Avenue by Resolution No.
1154-09 adopted by the Council on
August 5, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C2 Liquor Permit to Free Phone For
You, Inc., 13712 Lorain Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
Number 2911406, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1154-09, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 413-09.
By Council Member Keane.
An ordinance to change the zoning of lands on the east and west sides of Rocky River Drive between Woodbury Avenue and Puritas Avenue as shown on the attached map. (Map Change No. 2273, Sheet No. 12).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Rocky River Drive at its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the centerline of Westdale Avenue;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation of said centerline of Westdale to its intersection with the
southerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot No. 92 in the Rockport Homes Subdivision shown on the
recorded plat in Volume 65, Page 30 of Cuyahoga County Map Records,
Thence northeasterly along said southerly prolongation of said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly line thereof;
Thence northwesterly along said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Rocky River Drive;
Thence southerly along said centerline of Rocky River Drive to its intersection with the centerline of Puritas
Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Puritas Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of
the centerline of vacated Helen Avenue;
Thence northerly along said centerline of vacated Helen Avenue to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to ESSIG Limited Partnership by deed dated December
3rd, 1998 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 199812030500, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 026-11-003;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation of said southerly line and continuing along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Rocky River Drive;
Thence northerly along said centerline of Rocky River Drive to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the centerline of Westdale Avenue and the principal place of beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District (LR).
Section 2. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Rocky River Drive at its intersection with the southeasterly prolongation of the
southwesterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to 892 A/L Investments LTD., by deed dated June 4th 2001 and
recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200106040544;

2093

36

The City Record

November 18, 2009

Thence northwesterly along said southwesterly line to its intersection with the northwesterly line thereof;
Thence northeasterly along said northwesterly line and along its northeasterly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of Fairway Drive;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Fairway Drive and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of Rocky River Drive;
Thence northerly along said centerline of Rocky River Drive to its intersection with the easterly prolongation
of the centerline of Woodbury Avenue;
Thence westerly along said prolongation of said centerline of Woodbury to its intersection with the northerly
prolongation of the westerly line of Sublot No. 98 in the Neal Norton Subdivision Not Recorded said parcel also
being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 026-09-001;
Thence southerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the southerly line thereof;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Rocky River Drive;
Thence southerly along said centerline of Rocky River Drive to its intersection with the southeasterly prolongation of the southwesterly line of the aforementioned parcel of land conveyed to 892 A/L Investments LTD.,
and the principal place of beginning;
and as indicated on the attached map is changed to a Residence Office District (RO).
Section 3. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Puritas Avenue at its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of vacated Helen Avenue;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of said centerline to its intersection with the southerly line
of Sublot No. 103 in the Basile-Norton Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 179, Page 43 of Cuyahoga County Map Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 026-11024;
Thence easterly along said southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line thereof;
Thence northerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line of Sublot No. 104 in the
aforementioned Basile-Norton Subdivision, said parcel also being known as Permanent Parcel Number 026-10-048;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the easterly line of Sublot No. 105 in the aforementioned Basile-Norton Subdivision, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 026-10-047;
Thence northerly along said easterly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the
southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Jeffrey C. Krotine by deed dated July 2nd 1980 and recorded in
Auditor’s File Number V80152650889, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 026-10-010;
Thence southeasterly along said northerly line and along its southeasterly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Rocky River Drive;
Thence northerly along said centerline of Rocky River Drive to its intersection with the northwesterly prolongation of the southerly line of Sublot No. 91 in the Rockport Homes Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in
Volume 65, Page 30 of Cuyahoga County Map Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 027-09-003;
Thence southeasterly along said northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the easterly line thereof;
Thence northwesterly along said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly line of Sublot No. 89 in the
aforementioned Rockport Homes Subdivision;
Thence northwesterly along said northerly line and along its northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Rocky River Drive;
Thence southerly along said centerline of Rocky River Drive to its intersection with the easterly prolongation
of the southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to ESSIG Limited Partnership by deed dated December 3rd,
1998 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 199812030500, said parcel also being known as Permanent Parcel Number 026-11-003;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and continuing along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of vacated Helen Avenue;
Thence southerly along said centerline of vacated Helen Avenue and along its southerly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of Puritas Avenue and the principal place of beginning;
and as indicated on the attached map is changed to a Multi-Family Residential District (MF).
Section 4. That the Use and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Rocky River Drive at its intersection with the centerline of Puritas Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Puritas Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of
the centerline of West 176th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of West 176th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation
of the southerly line of the Breen Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 116, Page 7 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation of said southerly line and continuing along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Rocky River Drive;
Thence southerly along said centerline of Rocky River Drive to its intersection with the centerline of Puritas
Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Puritas Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of
the centerline of West 181st Street;
Thence northerly along said prolongation of said centerline of West 181st Street to its intersection with the
westerly prolongation of the centerline of Ridgeline Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Ridgeline Avenue to its intersection with the north westerly prolongation of the southwesterly line of Sublot Number 103 in the Basile-Norton Subdivision shown on the recorded
plat in Volume 179, Page 43 of Cuyahoga County Map Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 026-11-024;
Thence southerly along said prolongation of said southwesterly line to its intersection with the southerly line
thereof;
Thence easterly along said southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line thereof;
Thence northerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line of Sublot No. 104 in the
aforementioned Basile-Norton Subdivision, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel
Number 026-10-048;

2094

November 18, 2009

The City Record

37

Thence easterly along said southerly line and continuing along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with
the easterly line of Sublot No. 105 in the aforementioned Basile-Norton Subdivision said parcel also being known
as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 026-10-047;
Thence northerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the northeasterly line thereof;
Thence northwesterly along said northeasterly line and along its northwesterly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of West 180th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of West 180th Street and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Ridgeline Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Ridgeline Avenue and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 181st Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of West 181st Street and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Puritas Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Puritas Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of Rocky River
Drive and the principal place of beginning,
and as indicated on the attached map is changed to a Single Family Residential Use District and an ‘A’ Area
District (1F-A1).
Section 5. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 through Section 4 shall be identified
as Map Change No. 2273, Sheet No. 12 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the
appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 6. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed
by law.

Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective December 9, 2009.

2095

38
Ord. No. 850-09.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control
to enter into a Lease Agreement
with AirNet Systems, Inc. for flight
planning and as a layover rest area
for flight crews at Burke Lakefront Airport, for the Department
of Port Control, for a period of two
years, with two one-year options to
renew, the first of which is exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to Chapter 183
of
the
Codified
Ordinances
of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director
of Port Control is authorized to
enter
into
a
Lease
Agreement
(“Lease”) with AirNet Systems, Inc.
(“Lessee”) for use and occupancy
of approximately 149 square feet of
space located in Room 105 of the
passenger
terminal
building
at
Burke Lakefront Airport (“Leased
Premises”) to be used for flight
planning and as a layover rest area
for flight crews at Burke Lakefront Airport in space which has
been determined to be not needed
for public use during the term of
the Lease. The term of the Lease
shall be for a period of two years,
with two one-year options to renew.
The first option to renew is subject
to additional approval by City
Council. For use of the Leased
Premises, Lessee shall pay the City
a rental rate of $12.50 per square
foot as established by an independent appraisal. The annual fee
totals $1,862.00, payable in monthly
installments of $155.00 due as specified in the Lease.
Section 2. That the Lease may
authorize
the
Lessee
to
make
improvements to the Leased Premises subject to the prior approval of
the Director and appropriate City
agencies and officials.
Section 3. That the Director of
Port Control, the Director of Law,
and other appropriate City officials
are authorized to execute any other
documents and certificates, and
take any other actions which may
be necessary or appropriate to
effect the Lease authorized by this
ordinance.
Section 4. That the Lease authorized by this ordinance shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

The City Record
Ord. No. 864-09.
By Council Members Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of upgrading
the mechanical and electrical systems at the Public Safety Central
Core Room; and authorizing the
Director of Public Service to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
upgrading the mechanical and electrical systems at the Public Safety
Central Core Room, for the Department of Public Service, by one or
more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts for the
making of the public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
or bidders after competitive bidding
for a gross price for the improvement, provided, however, that each
separate trade and each distinct
component part of the improvement
may be treated as a separate
improvement, and each, or any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract for a gross price. On
request of the director the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule
of unit prices, including profit and
overhead, for all items constituting
units of the improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to apply
and pay for permits, licenses, or
other authorizations required by any
regulatory agency or public authority to permit performance of the
work authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 20 SF 381, 20 SF 391,
20 SF 503, 20 SF 509, 20 SF 517, and
20 SF 524, Request No. 186948.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 904-09.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing

2096

November 18, 2009
Phase 3 of the Consolidated Maintenance Facility project; authorizing
the Director of Port Control to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement; authorizing the Director to employ one or more professional consultants to design the
improvement; and to enter into various written standard purchase and
requirement contracts needed in connection with the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
constructing Phase 3 of the Consolidated Maintenance Facility project,
(the “Improvement”), for the Department of Port Control, by one or
more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts for the
making of the public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
or bidders after competitive bidding
for a gross price for the Improvement, provided, however, that each
separate trade and each distinct
component part of the Improvement
may be treated as a separate
Improvement, and each, or any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract for a gross price. On
request of the director the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule
of unit prices, including profit and
overhead, for all items constituting
units of the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to design the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Port Control for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be
paid for the services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 4. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to make
one or more written standard purchase contracts and written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the period of
requirements to be determined by
the director, for the necessary items
of materials, equipment, supplies,

November 18, 2009
and services necessary to construct
the Improvement, including labor
and
materials
if
necessary
for
installation, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Department of Port Control. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines.
Section 5. That the costs of the requirement contract shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts
and
the
Director
of
Finance shall certify the amount of
the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 6. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Port Control may sign all documents that are
necessary to make the purchases,
and may enter into one or more contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 7. That the cost of the contracts authorized shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 60 SF 104, 60 SF 106, 60
SF 141, 60 SF 112, 60 SF 115, 60 SF
116, 60 SF 117, 60 SF 119, 60 SF 121,
60 SF 122, 60 SF 128, 60 SF 129, 60
SF 130, passenger facility charges if
available for the project, and from
the fund or funds to which are credited the proceeds of any grants and
future bonds which include this purpose, Request No. 175249.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1047-09.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public improvement of repairing or
replacing roofs and authorizing the
Director of Port Control to enter into
one or more public improvement requirement contracts for the making
of the improvement, for a period of
two years, with two one-year options
to renew, exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleve-

The City Record
land, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
repairing or replacing roofs, for the
various divisions of the Department
of Port Control, by one or more public improvement requirement contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders on a unit
basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
a period of two years, with two oneyear options to renew, for the making of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
or bidders after competitive bidding
on a unit basis for the improvement
for a period not to exceed the specified term, purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the various divisions of the Department of Port Control. The first of the one-year
options to renew may not be exercised without additional legislative
authority. If such additional legislative authority is granted and the
first of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the second
of the one-year options to renew
may be exercisable at the option of
the Director of Port Control, without
the necessity of obtaining additional authority of this Council.
Bids shall be taken in a manner
that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 3. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to apply
and pay for permits, licenses, or
other authorizations required by any
regulatory agency or public authority to permit performance of the
work authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the costs of the
contract or contracts or other expenditures shall be charged against the
proper appropriation accounts and
the Director of Finance shall certify the amount of the initial purchase,
which
purchase,
together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies under a
requisition against the contract or
contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 175252)
Section 5. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Port Control may sign all documents that are
necessary to make the purchases,
and may enter into one or more contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

2097

39
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1051-09.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brady and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Lakeside Commerce, LLC to encroach into the public right-of-way of East 53rd Street
(60 feet wide) by installing, using,
and maintaining a parking area and
chain link fence with a 24-foot sliding gate.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, to Lakeside Commerce, LLC
c/o
Ohio
Realty
Advisors,
3623
Brecksville Road, Richfield, Ohio
44286 (“Permittee”), to encroach into
the public right-of-way of East 53rd
Street (60 feet wide) by installing,
using, and maintaining a parking
area and chain link fence with a 24foot sliding gate at the following
location:
Being the easterly 10 feet of East
53rd Street (60 feet wide) extending
from the northerly right-of-way of
Lakeside Avenue northerly 327.59
feet.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of Public Service. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans
and specifications approved by the
Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as
the director determines necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest. The permit shall be issued only
when, in the opinion of the Director
of Law, Permittee has properly
indemnified the City against any loss
that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

40
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1052-09.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brady and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Ohio Technical
College to encroach into the public
right-of-way of 1390 East 49th Street
by installing, using, and maintaining entrance canopy and two support posts.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, to Ohio Technical College,
1374 East 51st Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44103 (“Permittee”), to encroach into
the public right-of-way of 1390 East
49th Street by installing, using, and
maintaining an entrance canopy and
two support posts, at the following
location: Located at the entrance of
1390 East 49th Street, canopy is 6.0
feet wide in front, 3.5 feet in height
and encroaches into the right of
way 12.5 feet. Canopy has a minimum clearance height above sidewalk of 8.0 feet and is supported by
building and two 2-inch square
posts.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of Public Service. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans
and specifications approved by the
Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as
the director determines necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest. The permit shall be issued only
when, in the opinion of the Director
of
Law,
Permittee
has
properly
indemnified the City against any loss
that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

The City Record
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1053-09.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli, Wilkes, Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 9 of Ordinance
No. 687-08, passed June 9, 2008, and
to supplement the ordinance by
adding new Sections 2a, 2b, 8a, and
8b relating to applying and accepting grants from Scenic Byways and
the Ohio Public Works Commission
to rehabilitate Broadway Avenue
from I-77 to the east corporation line
and authorizing the Director of Public Service to enter into various contracts to implement the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 9 of Ordinance No. 687-08,
passed June 9, 2008, are amended to
read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to accept a grant
from the Ohio Public Works Commission and authorizing the Director of Public Service to apply for
and accept a grant from Scenic
Byways for streetscaping Broadway
Avenue from I-77 to the east corporation line; authorizing the Director
of Public Service to hire one or more
consultants for design, engineering
and construction services; determining the method of making the public improvement of rehabilitating
Broadway Avenue; authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for
the making of the improvement;
authorizing the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies to acquire
for right-of-way purposes real property necessary to make the public
improvement; authorizing the Director to accept cash contributions from
the
Greater
Cleveland
Regional
Transit Authority and the NEORSD
for costs associated with the improvement and to enter into agreements; authorizing the Director to
enter into one or more agreement
with Slavic Village Development Corporation; and authorizing the Director
to enter into a Local Project Administration Agreement with the Ohio
Department of Transportation for
the improvement.
Section 9. That the costs of the
contracts and property acquisition
authorized shall be paid from the
fund or funds to which are credited
the grant proceeds accepted under
this ordinance, the cash match,
Fund Nos. 20 SF 364, 20 SF 373, 20
SF 380, 20 SF 383, 20 SF 394, 20 SF
500, 20 SF 506, 20 SF 510, 20 SF 520,
20 SF 528, 52 SF 001, 54 SF 001, from
the fund or funds which are deposited any funding received from Slavic Village, any cash contributions
from the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority and the
NEORSD, and from the fund or
funds to which are credited the

2098

November 18, 2009
funds received from the Ohio Department of Transportation for the
Improvement and are appropriated
for this purpose. Request Nos. 175548
and 188513.
Section 2. That the title and existing Section 9 of Ordinance No. 68708, passed June 9, 2008, are repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 68708, passed June 9, 2008, is supplemented by adding new Sections 2a,
2b, 8a, and 8b to read as follows:
Section 2a. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to apply
for and accept one or more grants in
the total aggregate amount not to
exceed $265,000, from Scenic Byways
to provide streetscaping in conjunction with the Broadway Rehabilitation Program; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the file
for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2b. That the file for the
grant, File No. 1053-09-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the
public hearing on this legislation, is
approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 8a. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to
accept a cash contribution from the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority and the NEORSD for infrastructure restoration costs associated with relocating, rehabilitating
or reconstructing utility infrastructure for the improvement. That the
Director of Public Service is authorized to enter into agreements with
the entities for this purpose.
Section 8b. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with
Slavic Village Development Corporation (“Slavic Village”) to accept
funds received by Slavic Village
from the Ohio and Erie Canalway
Association and from other grantors
for the streetscaping in conjunction
with the rehabilitation of Broadway
Avenue, which funds will be deposited into the fund or fund designated
by the Director of Finance, and are
appropriated for this purpose.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1054-09.
By
Council
Members
Mitchell.
Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Baldwin Road S.E.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
1186-08, adopted November 10, 2008
this Council declared its intention to
vacate a portion of Baldwin Road
S.E.; and

November 18, 2009
Whereas, notice of the adoption
of the above vacation was served
on the abutting property owners
affected by the resolution which
stated a time and place when objections would be heard before the
Board of Revision of Assessments;
and
Whereas, on June 19, 2009 the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of the above and that
it will not be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be
made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being all that
portion of Baldwin Road S.E. (60
feet wide) extending Southwesterly from the Southwesterly line of
Stokes Blvd. (60 feet wide) to the
Southeasterly prolongation of the
Northeasterly line of Mt. Overlook
Avenue S.E. (formerly Quincy Avenue S.E.) (60 feet wide).
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved
to the City of Cleveland an easement of full width as described
above for Water Pollution Control
(WPC)
and
CEI
(Illuminating
Company), include access for the
City of Cleveland Division of Fire.
That no structures shall be erected on the premises described in this
easement except those constructed
under the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by
Water Pollution Control and CEI
(Illuminating Company) and the
City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That provided all required approvals have been obtained, the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction is directed
to record the vacation plat in the
office of the Recorder of Cuyahoga
County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this ordinance to the Auditor of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1055-09.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of East 71st Street (90 feet
wide).
Whereas, under Resolution No.
167-08, adopted May 5, 2008 this
Council declared its intention to
vacate a portion of East 71st Street
(90 feet wide); and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on
the abutting property owners affected by the resolution which stated a
time and place when objections
would be heard before the Board of
Revision of Assessments; and
Whereas, on June 19, 2009 the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of the above and that
it will not be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be
made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
Declaring the intent to vacate the
easterly 20 feet of East 71st Street
(90 feet wide) extending northerly
from the northerly right of way line
of Woodland Avenue S.E. (80 feet
wide) to the southerly right of way
line of Merrick Court S.E. (16 feet
wide).
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved
to the City of Cleveland an easement of full width as described
above for CEI (Illuminating Company).
That no structures shall be erected on the premises described in this
easement except those constructed
under the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by CEI
(Illuminating Company) and the
City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That provided all required approvals have been obtained,
the Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction is directed to record the
vacation plat in the office of the
Recorder of Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this ordinance to the Auditor of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

2099

41
Ord. No. 1056-09.
By Council Members Brady, Cummins, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental rtequest).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of West 27th Place.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
1187-08, adopted November 10, 2008
this Council declared its intention to
vacate a portion of West 27th Place;
and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on
the abutting property owners affected by the resolution which stated a
time and place when objections
would be heard before the Board of
Revision of Assessments; and
Whereas, on June 19, 2009 the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of the above and that
it will not be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be
made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being all that
portion of West 27th Place (12 feet
wide) extending Northerly from the
Northerly line of Riverside Avenue
S.W. (60 feet wide) to the Southerly Limited Access Line of the I-71
Freeway so called.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved
to the City of Cleveland an easement of full width as described
above for CEI (Illuminating Company).
That no structures shall be erected on the premises described in this
easement except those constructed
under the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by CEI
(Illuminating Company) and the
City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That provided all required approvals have been obtained,
the Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction is directed to record the
vacation plat in the office of the
Recorder of Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this ordinance to the Auditor of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

42
Ord. No. 1057-09.
By Council Members Wilkes, Brady,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of the first un-named alley
East of Warner Road and South of
Tioga Avenue.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
1191-08, adopted November 10, 2008
this Council declared its intention to
vacate a portion of 1st un-named
alley East of Warner Road and
South of Tioga Avenue; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on
the abutting property owners affected by the resolution which stated a
time and place when objections
would be heard before the Board of
Revision of Assessments; and
Whereas, on June 19, 2009 the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of the above and that
it will not be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be
made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being all that
portion of the first un-named alley
(16.5 feet wide) East of Warner
Road S.E. (49.5 feet wide) extending
Southerly from the Southerly line of
Tioga Avenue S.E. (40 feet wide) to
its Southerly terminus.
Legal
Description
approved
by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That provided all required approvals have been obtained,
the Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction is directed to record the
vacation plat in the office of the
Recorder of Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this ordinance to the Auditor of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1058-09.
By Council Members Mitchell, Brady,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of the 1st un-named alley
North of Woodland Avenue running

The City Record
to the West and East of East 81st
Street.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
1188-08, adopted November 10, 2008
this Council declared its intention to
vacate a portion of the 1st un-named
alley North of Woodland Avenue
running to the West and East of
East 81st Street; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on
the abutting property owners affected by the resolution which stated a
time and place when objections
would be heard before the Board of
Revision of Assessments; and
Whereas, on June 19, 2009 the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of the above and that
it will not be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be
made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
Being all that portion of the first
un-named alley (12 feet wide) North
of Woodland Avenue (80 feet wide)
extending Easterly and Westerly
from the Easterly and Westerly
lines of East 81st Street (33 feet
wide) to the Easterly and Westerly
lines of the Woodland Savings &
Loan Company Re-Subdivision as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 28, Page 24 of Cuyahoga County map records.
Legal
Description
approved
by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved
to the City of Cleveland an easement of full width as described
above for CEI (Illuminating Company).
That no structures shall be erected on the premises described in this
easement except those constructed
under the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by CEI
(Illuminating Company) and the
City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That provided all required approvals have been obtained, the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction is directed
to record the vacation plat in the
office of the Recorder of Cuyahoga
County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this ordinance to the Auditor of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

2100

November 18, 2009
Ord. No. 1069-09.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
and 6 of Ordinance No. 556-09, passed
June 1, 2009, relating to changing
the zoning of lands on the east and
west sides of Bellaire road between
Hirst Avenue and West 130th Street.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 of Ordinance
No. 556-09, passed June 1, 2009 are
amended to read as follows:
An Ordinance to change the zoning of lands on the east and west
sides of Bellaire Road between
Hirst Avenue and West 130th Street
as shown on the attached map.
(Map Change No. 2276, Sheet 2 & 12)
Section 1. That the Use and Area
District
of
lands
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Bellaire Road at its intersection with
the easterly prolongation of the centerline of Hirst Avenue;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation of said centerline
of Hirst Avenue to its intersection
with the northerly prolongation of
the westerly line of Sublot No. 128
in the N. Moses Subdivision shown
on the recorded plat in Volume 16,
Page 11;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said westerly
line and continuing along its southerly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of Emery Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Emery Avenue and continuing along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Bellaire Road;
Thence southerly along said centerline of Bellaire Road to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the northerly line of Sublot
No. 146 in the Guardian Subdivision
shown on the recorded plat in Volume 65, Page 9 of Cuyahoga County Map Records; said parcel also
being know as Cuyahoga County’s
Permanent Parcel Number 019-17021;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation of said northerly
line and continuing along its westerly prolongation to its intersection
with the northerly prolongation of
the centerline of a 10 foot wide
unnamed alley;
Thence southerly along said prolongation of said centerline of said
unnamed alley to its intersection
with the centerline of Guardian
Boulevard;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Guardian Boulevard to its
intersection with the northerly prolongation of the easterly line of
Sublot No. 248 in the aforementioned
Guardian Subdivision, said parcel
also being know as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 019-17048;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation of said easterly
line to its intersection with the
southerly line thereof;

November 18, 2009
Thence westerly along said southerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the
easterly line of Sublot No. 43 in the
aforementioned Guardian Subdivision, said parcel also being know as
Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 019-17-046;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Matherson Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Matherson to its intersection with the northerly prolongation
of the easterly line of Sublot No. 58
in the Domal Land Co. Subdivision
shown on the recorded plat in Volume 25, Page 20 of Cuyahoga County Map Records, said parcel also
being know as Cuyahoga County’s
Permanent Parcel Number 019-17-031;
Thence southwesterly along said
prolongation of said easterly line
and along its southwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the
easterly line of Sublot No. 112 in the
aforementioned Domal Land Co. Subdivision, said parcel also being know
as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent
Parcel Number 019-17-003;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and continuing along its
southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Leeila
Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Leeila Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot
NO. 4 in the Homesite No. 7 Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in
Volume 67, Page 5 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records, said parcel
also being know as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 01919-035;
Thence southerly along said prolongation of said easterly line to its
intersection with the northerly line
of Sublot No. 3 in the aforementioned Homesite No. 7 Subdivision,
said parcel also being know as
Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 019-19-038;
Thence westerly along said northerly line to its intersection with the
westerly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the
northerly line of Sublot No. 53 in the
aforementioned Homesite No. 7 Subdivision, said parcel also being
know as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 019-19-039;
Thence westerly along said northerly line to its intersection with the
westerly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Kadel Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Kadel Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the westerly line of Sublot
No. 59 in the aforementioned Homesite No 7 Subdivision, said parcel
also being know as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 01919-077;
Thence
southerly
along
said
northerly prolongation of said westerly line to its intersection with the
northerly line of Sublot No. 58 in the
aforementioned Homesite No. 7 Subdivision;

The City Record
Thence westerly along said northerly line to its intersection with the
westerly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the
southerly line thereof;
Thence westerly along said southerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the
easterly line of Sublot No. 255 in the
Joseph Schrimshaw Subdivision Not
Recorded;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Wanda Avneue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Wanda Avenue to its
intersection with the northeasterly
prolongation of the northwesterly
line of Sublot No. 248 in the aforementioned Joseph Schrimshaw Subdivision;
Thence southwesterly along said
northeasterly prolongation of said
northwesterly line and continuing
along its southwesterly prolongation
to its intersection with the centerline of West 129th Street;
Thence southeasterly along said
centerline of West 129th Street and
along its southeasterly prolongation
to its intersection with the centerline of Bellaire Road;
Thence southwesterly along said
centerline of Bellaire Road to its
intersection with the northerly prolongation of the southwesterly line
of Sublot No. 3 in the Highview Subdivision shown on the recorded plat
in Volume 83, Page 27 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records, said parcel
also being know as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 01921-112;
Thence southeasterly along said
prolongation and said southwesterly
line to its intersection with the easterly line thereof;
Thence northerly along said easterly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Firsby Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Firsby Avenue to its intersection with the southwesterly prolongation of the southeasterly line
of Sublot No. 6 in the aforementioned Highview Subdivision, said
parcel also being know as Cuyahoga
County’s Permanent Parcel Number
019-21-049;
Thence northeasterly along said
southwesterly prolongation of said
southeasterly line to its intersection
with the northeasterly line thereof;
Thence northwesterly along said
northeasterly line and continuing
along its northwesterly prolongation
to its intersection with the centerline of Bellaire Road;
Thence northeasterly along said
centerline of Bellaire Road to the
northwesterly prolongation of the
southwesterly line of Sublot Number
9 in the aforementioned Highview
Subdivision;
Thence southeasterly along said
northwesterly prolongation of said
southwesterly line to its intersection
with the southeasterly line thereof;
Thence northeasterly along said
southeasterly line and continuing
along its northeasterly prolongation
to its intersection with the westerly
line of Sulbot Number 142 in the
aforementioned Highview Subdivision, said parcel also being known

2101

43
as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent
Parcel Number 019-21-081;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and continuing along its
northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Grimsby Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Grimsby Avenue to it
intersection with the southwesterly
prolongation of the southeasterly
line of Sublot No. 13 in the aforementioned Highview Subdivision;
Thence northeasterly along said
southeasterly prolongation and continuing along it northeasterly prolongation to its intersection with the
westerly line of Sublot No. 84 in the
aforementioned Highview Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Sobieski Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Sobieski Avenue to its
intersection with the southerly prolongation of the easterly line of
Sublot No. 55 in the aforementioned
Highview Subdivision, said parcel
also being know as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 01922-118;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of said easterly
line of Sublot No. 55 to its intersection with the southeasterly line of
Sublot No. 23 in the aforementioned
Highview Subdivision;
Thence northeasterly along said
southeasterly line to its intersection
with the westerly line of Sublot No.
86 in the aforementioned Highview
Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Wanda Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Wanda and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of Bellaire Road;
Thence northeasterly along said
Bellaire Road to its intersection
with the centerline of Leeila Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Leeila Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of a 12 foot
wide Unnamed Alley;
Thence northeasterly and northerly along said prolongation of said
centerline and along its northerly
prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Matherson Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Matherson Avenue to its
intersection with the southerly prolongation of the westerly line of
Sublot No. 183 in the Domal Land
Co. Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 25, Page 20 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records, said
parcel also being know as Cuyahoga
County’s Permanent Parcel Number
019-18-080;
Thence
northerly
along
said
southerly prolongation of said westerly line to its intersection with the
southerly line of Sublot No. 136 in
the Guardian Subdivision shown on
the recorded plat in Volume 65,
Page 9 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence easterly along said southerly line to its intersection with the
westerly line of Sublot No. 130 in the

44
aforementioned Guardian Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Guardian Boulevard;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Guardian Boulevard to its
intersection with the southerly prolongation of the westerly line of
Sublot No. 96 in the aforementioned
Guardian Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of the westerly
line of Sublot No. 96 to its intersection with the northerly line thereof;
Thence easterly along said northerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the
westerly line of Sublot No. 84 in the
aforementioned Guardian Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Brookfield Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Brookfield to its intersection with the centerline of Bellaire
Road;
Thence northeasterly along said
centerline of Bellaire Road to its
intersection with the westerly prolongation of the southerly line of
the N. Moses Subdivision shown on
the recorded plat in Volume 16,
Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence easterly along said southerly line to its intersection with the
Cleveland/Linndale City Limits line;
Thence northerly along said City
Limits line to its intersection with
the centerline of West 120th Street;
Thence northwesterly along said
centerline of West 120th Street and
along its northwesterly prolongation
to its intersection with the centerline of Bellaire Road;
Thence southwesterly along said
centerline of Bellaire Road to its
intersection with the easterly prolongation of the centerline of Hirst
Avenue and the principal place of
beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map
is changed to a Local Retail Business District (LR) and a ‘C’ Area
District.
Section 2. That the Use, Height
and Area Districts of lands bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Bellaire Road at its intersection with
the centerline of Leeila Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Leeila Avenue and along
its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of the
Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago and
St. Louis Railroad (C.C.C & St. L.
R.R);
Thence southwesterly along said
centerline of said C.C.C. & St. L.
Railroad to its intersection with the
easterly prolongation of the centerline of Wanda Avenue 60 feet wide;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Wanda Avenue to its
intersection with the southerly prolongation of the easterly line of
Sublot No. 46 in the Bellaire Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in
Volume 238, Page 32 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records,
said parcel
also being know as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 01920-048;

The City Record
Thence
northerly
along
said
southerly prolongation of said easterly line and continuing along its
northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Leeila
Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Leeila Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the westerly line of Sublot
No. 1 in the aforementioned Bellaire
Gardens Subdivision, said parcel
also being know as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 01920-004;
Thence
southerly
along
said
northerly prolongation of said westerly line and continuing along its
southerly prolongation to its intersection
with
the
centerline
of
Wanda Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Wanda Avenue and along
its westerly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of
Bellaire Road;
Thence northeasterly along said
centerline of Bellaire Road to its
intersection with the centerline of
Leeila Avenue and the principal
place of beginning;
and as indicated on the attached
map is changed to a Multi-Family
Residential District a ‘C’ Area District, and a ‘2’ Height District (MFC2).
Section 3. That the Use, Height
and Area Districts of lands bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Bellaire Road at its intersection with
the westerly prolongation of the centerline of Firsby Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Firsby Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the westerly line of Sublot
No. 199 in the Highview Subdivision
shown on the recorded plat in Volume 83, Page 27 of Cuyahoga County Map Records, said parcel also
being know as Cuyahoga County’s
Permanent Parcel Number 019-21-113;
Thence
southerly
along
said
northerly prolongation of said westerly line to its intersection with the
southerly line thereof;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and continuing along its
easterly prolongation to its intersection with the westerly line of
Sublot No. 202 in the aforementioned
Highview Subdivision, said parcel
also being know as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 01921-116;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and continuing along its
northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Firsby Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Firsby Avenue and along
its westerly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of
Bellaire Road;
Thence northeasterly along said
centerline of Bellaire Road to its
intersection with the westerly prolongation
of
the
centerline
of
Wanda Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Wanda Avenue to its
intersection with the southerly prolongation of the easterly line of
Sublot No. 46 in the Bellaire Gardens
Subdivision shown on the recorded
plat in Volume 238, Page 32 of Cuya-

2102

November 18, 2009
hoga County Map Records, said parcel also being know as Cuyahoga
County’s Permanent Parcel Number
019-20-048;
Thence
northerly
along
said
southerly prolongation of said easterly line and continuing along its
northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Leeila
Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Leeila Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the westerly line of Sublot
Number 1 in the aforementioned Bellaire Gardens Subdivision, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga
County’s Permanent Parcel Number
019-20-004;
Thence
southerly
along
said
northerly prolongation of said westerly line and continuing along its
southerly prolongation to its intersection
with
the
centerline
of
Wanda Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Wanda Avenue and continuing along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Bellaire Road;
Thence southwesterly along said
centerline of Bellaire Road to its
intersection with the centerline of
Firsby Avenue and the principal
place of beginning;
and as indicated on the attached map
is changed to a Two Family Residential District a ‘B’ Area District,
and a ‘1’ Height District (2F-B1).
Section 4. That the Use and Area
Districts of lands bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Bellaire Road at its intersection with
the easterly prolongation of the centerline of Emery Avenue;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation of said centerline
of Emery Avenue to its intersection
with the northerly prolongation of
the easterly line of Sublot No. 238 in
the N. Moses Subdivision shown on
the recorded plat in Volume 16,
Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said easterly
line to its intersection with the
southerly line thereof;
Thence
westerly
along
said
southerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection
with the westerly line of Sublot No.
53 in the Guardian Subdivision
shown on the recorded plat in Volume 65, Page 9 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said prolongation of said westerly line and
along its southerly prolongation to
its intersection with the centerline
of Brookfield Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Brookfield Avenue through its
intersection with the centerline of
Bellaire Road to its intersection with
the southerly prolongation of the
westerly line of Sublot No. 63 in the
aforementioned Guardian Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of said westerly
line to its intersection with the
northerly line thereof:
Thence westerly along said northerly line and continuing along its
westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Bellaire Road:

November 18, 2009
Thence northeasterly along said
centerline of Bellaire Road to its
intersection with the easterly prolongation of the centerline of Emery
Avenue and the principal place of
beginning;
and as indicated on the attached
map is changed to a Single Family
Residential Use District and an ‘A’
Area District (1F-A1).
Section 5. That the Use of lands
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Bellaire Road at its intersection with
the easterly prolongation of the centerline of Emery Avenue;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation of said centerline
of Emery Avenue to its intersection
with the southerly prolongation of
the easterly line of Sublot Number
127 in the N. Moses Subdivision
shown on the recorded plat in Volume 16, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence
northerly
along
said
southerly prolongation of said easterly line to its intersection with the
southerly line thereof;
Thence westerly along said southerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the
easterly line of Sublot Number 132
in the aforementioned N. Moses Subdivision;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Emery Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Emery Avenue and along
its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Bellaire Road and the principal place
of beginning;
and as indicated on the attached
map is changed to a Semi-Industry
District.
Section 6. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 through Section 5 shall be
identified as Map Change No. 2276,
Sheet No. 2 & 12 and shall be made
upon the Building Zone Maps of the
City of Cleveland on file in the
office of the Clerk of Council and
on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate
person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 of
Ordinance No. 556-09, passed June 1,
2009 are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1250-09.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brady and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to David H. Ellison to
encroach into the public right-of-way

The City Record
of Lorain Avenue by installing, using,
and maintaining a bus shelter.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, to David H. Ellison, 3118
Carroll
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44113 (“Permittee”), to encroach into
the public right-of-way of Lorain
Avenue by installing, using, and
maintaining a bus shelter at the following location:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
52, being more particularly bounded
and described as follows:
Commencing for reference at the
intersection of the centerline of
West 41st Street (formerly Burton
Street), 60 feet wide, and the Southeasterly line of Lorain Avenue, 66
feet wide (a stone and drill hole
monument was found on the centerline of West 41st Street, distant
South 00° - 48' - 01" West, 1.25 feet
from said point); thence, South 64° 26' - 18" West along the southeasterly line of Lorain Avenue, a distance of 36.04 feet to the TRUE
PLACE
OF
BEGINNING
of
the
premises herein described;
Course No. 1: thence, continuing
South 64° - 26' - 18" West along the
southeasterly line of Lorain Avenue,
a distance of 24.00 feet to a point;
Course No. 2: thence, North 25° 33' - 42" West, a distance of 6.00 feet
to a point;
Course No. 3: thence, North 64° 26' - 18" East, a distance of 24.00
feet to a point;
Course No. 4: thence, South 25° 33' - 42" East, a distance of 6.00 feet
to the true place of beginning, said
premises containing 144 square feet
of land more or less, as described in
July of 2009 by Robert A. Dorner,
Registered Professional Land Surveyor No. 6943 for and on behalf of
McSteen & Associates, Inc. under
Project No. 09-137 and being subject
to all legal highways and easements
of record.
The basis of bearings for this
legal description is South 64° - 26' 18" West as the centerline of Lorain
Avenue, as evidenced by monuments
found, and is the same bearing as
found a map of survey by McSteen
& Associates, Inc. dated November 1,
1988 (Drawing H-657).
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of Public Service. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans
and specifications approved by the
Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachment(s).

2103

45
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall
incorporate such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest. The permit shall be
issued only when, in the opinion of
the Director of Law, Permittee has
properly indemnified the City against
any loss that may result from the
encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1251-09.
By Council Members Zone, Brady,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Detroit Shoreway
Community Development Organization to encroach into the public
right-of-way of Detroit Avenue by
installing, using, and maintaining
two bus shelters to serve both as
public art and as public bus shelters.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, to Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization,
6516 Detroit Avenue, Suite 1, Cleveland, Ohio 44102 (“Permittee”), to
encroach into the public right-ofway of
Detroit Avenue by installing, using, and maintaining two
bus shelters to serve both as public
art and as public bus shelters at the
following locations:
Location “A”
The northeast corner of West 65th
Street and Detroit Avenue and being
3.5 feet in depth and 11.0 feet in
length located 3 feet 7 inches from
the end of curb radius, 3.00 feet off
face of curb projecting 11 feet easterly.
Location “B”
The southwest corner of West
65th Street and Detroit Avenue and
being 3.5 feet in depth and 11.0 feet
in length located 3 feet 4 inches
from the end of curb radius 3.00 feet
off face of curb projecting 11 feet
westerly.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.

46
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of Public Service. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans
and specifications approved by the
Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall
incorporate such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest. The permit shall be
issued only when, in the opinion of
the Director of Law, Permittee has
properly indemnified the City against
any loss that may result from the
encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1266-09.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 3260 West 54th Street
to Joseph Maximovich and Emeric
Maximovich.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Joseph
Maximovich
and
Emeric
Maximovich.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:

The City Record
P. P. No. 016-10-082
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
321 of the Subdivision of part of
Original Lot No. 47, made by James
M. Hoyt, as recorded in Book No. 3
of Maps, Pages 10 and 16 of Cuyahoga County Records. Said Sublot
No. 321 has a frontage of 40 feet on
West 54th Street and extends back
of equal width 125 feet deep to an
alley, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1267-09.
By Council Member Wilkes.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 9108 Aetna Road to
Tyson T. Mitchell.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio

2104

November 18, 2009
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Tyson T. Mitchell.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 133-24-003
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being the Easterly 60 feet of Sublots Nos. 68 and
69 in Charles Carter’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 448, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 12 of Maps, Page
29 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
together forming a parcel of land 60
feet front on the Southerly side of
Aetna Avenue, S.E., and extending
back of equal width 80 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to Zoning Ordinances,
if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

November 18, 2009
Ord. No. 1373-09.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brady and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Simms Street N.W. (50
feet wide), Sanders Court N.W. and
turnouts (width Varies) and Kramer
Court N.W. (15 feet wide).
Whereas, under Resolution No. 8809, adopted March 2, 2009 this Council declared its intention to vacate a
portion of Simms Street N.W. (50
feet wide), Sanders Court N.W. and
turnouts (width Varies) and Kramer
Court N.W. (15 feet wide); and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on
the abutting property owners affected by the resolution which stated a
time and place when objections
would be heard before the Board of
Revision of Assessments; and
Whereas, on August 19, 2009 the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of the above and that
it will not be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be
made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
SIMMS STREET N.W.
Being all that portion of Simms
Street N.W. (50 feet wide) extending
from the Southerly right of way line
of Merwin Street N.W. (60 feet wide)
to the Northerly right of way line of
Fall Street N.W. (60 feet wide).
SANDERS COURT N.W.
Being all that portion of Sanders
Court N.W. and turnouts (width
varies) extending from the Easterly
right of way line of Simms Street
N.W. (50 feet wide) Easterly to its
terminus.
KRAMER COURT N.W.
Being all that portion of Kramer
Court N.W. (15 feet wide) extending
from the Southerly right of way line
of Merwin Street N.W. (60 feet wide)
Southerly to the Northerly right of
way line and turnouts of Sanders
Court N.W. (width varies).
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved
to the City of Cleveland an easement of full width as described
above for Cleveland Public Power
(CPP).
That no structures shall be erected on the premises described in this
easement except those constructed
under the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by
Cleveland Public Power and the
City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That provided all required approvals have been ob-

The City Record
tained, the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction is directed
to record the vacation plat in the
office of the Recorder of Cuyahoga
County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this ordinance to the Auditor of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1374-09.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of East 33rd Street (59 feet
wide).
Whereas, under Resolution No.
276-09, adopted May 4, 2009 this
Council declared its intention to
vacate a portion of East 33rd Street
(59 feet wide); and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on
the abutting property owners affected by the resolution which stated a
time and place when objections
would be heard before the Board of
Revision of Assessments; and
Whereas, on August 19, 2009 the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of the above and that
it will not be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be
made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
original ten acre lot number 39 and
being all that portion of East 33rd
Street (59 feet wide) extending
southerly from the Southerly line of
Community College Avenue (60 feet
wide) to its southerly terminus.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved
to the City of Cleveland an easement of full width as described
above for Cleveland Public Power
(CPP), City of Cleveland Department of Water, Illuminating Company (CEI), with access maintained
for the Division of Fire.

2105

47
That no structures shall be erected on the premises described in this
easement except those constructed
under the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by
Cleveland Public Power (CPP) City
of Cleveland Department of Water,
Illuminating Company (CEI), with
access maintained for the Division
of Fire.
Section 3. That provided all required approvals have been obtained, the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction is directed
to record the vacation plat in the
office of the Recorder of Cuyahoga
County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this ordinance to the Auditor of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1375-09.
By Council Members Kelley, Brady,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of West 52nd Place.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
314-09, adopted June 6, 2009 this
Council declared its intention to
vacate a portion of West 52nd Place;
and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on
the abutting property owners affected by the resolution which stated a
time and place when objections
would be heard before the Board of
Revision of Assessments; and
Whereas, on August 19, 2009 the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of the above and that
it will not be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be
made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being all that
portion of West 52nd Place (width
varies) extending Southerly from
the
Southerly
line
of
Vandalia
Avenue S.W. (50 feet wide) to the
Northerly line of Archmere Avenue
S.W. (50 feet wide).
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,

48
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved
to the City of Cleveland an easement of full width as described
above for AT&T.
That no structures shall be erected on the premises described in this
easement except those constructed
under the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by
AT&T and the City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That provided all required approvals have been obtained, the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction is directed
to record the vacation plat in the
office of the Recorder of Cuyahoga
County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this ordinance to the Auditor of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1388-09.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to apply
for and accept a grant from the
Western Reserve Area Agency on
Aging for the 2010 Western Reserve
Area Agency on Aging Program;
and authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into
contracts necessary to implement
the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Aging is authorized to apply for and
accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $185,000, and any other
funds that may become available
during the grant term from the
Western Reserve Area Agency on
Aging to conduct the 2010 Western
Reserve Area Agency on Aging Program; that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes described in the summary
for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1388-09-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development is autho-

The City Record
rized to enter into one or more contracts necessary to implement the
program as described in the file,
payable from the fund or funds
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance.
Section 4. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1391-09.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the conveyance of real property
as part of the Land Reutilization
Program and located at Stanard
Avenue to Cuyahoga County Board
of Developmental Disabilities.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to convey the real property, more fully described below, to
Cuyahoga County Board of Developmental Disabilities.
Section 2. That the real property
to be conveyed pursuant to this ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-11-074
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being in Henry
C. Ranney and Myron T Herrick’s
Subdivision of part of Original Ten
Acre Lot Nos. 128, 129, 130 and 131
and known as being Sublot Nos. 69,
70, 82 and 83, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways. For more particular description reference is hereby made to
the recorded plat of said Allotment,
book of Maps, 12, Pages 30 and 31.

2106

November 18, 2009
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1423-09.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 65th Street to
Artist Duncan and Phyllis Duncan.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Artist
Duncan and Phyllis Duncan.

November 18, 2009
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-12-015
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 11 and 12 in J.H. Salisbury’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 341,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 3 of Maps, Page 43 of Cuyahoga County Records, and together
forming a parcel of land bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 65th Street (formerly Norwood
Street), at a point distant 1 foot
Southerly from the Northwesterly
corner of said Sublot No. 12; thence
Easterly
and
parallel
with
the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 12,
80 feet; thence Southerly and parallel with the Easterly line of East
65th Street, 34 feet; thence Westerly
and parallel with the Northerly line
of said Sublot No. 11, 80 feet to the
Easterly line of East 65th Street;
thence Northerly, along the Easterly line of East 65th Street 34 feet to
the place of beginning, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
P. P. No. 106-12-016
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 15 feet of Sublot No. 10
and the Southerly 15 feet of Sublot
No. 11 in J.H. Salisbury’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 341, as shown by the
recorded plat of said Subdivision in
Volume 3 of Maps, Page 43 of Cuyahoga County Records, said parts of
Sublot Nos. 10 and 11 together forming a parcel of land having a
frontage of 30 feet on the Easterly
side of East 65th Street (formerly
Norwood Street) and extending back
between parallel lines 132 feet 9
inches to the Westerly line of East
66th Place, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
P. P. No. 106-12-017
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 20 feet front and rear of
Sublot No. 9 and the Southerly 10
feet front and rear of Sublot No. 10
in J.H. Salisbury’s Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 341, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page
43 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
together forming a parcel of land
and having a frontage of 30 feet on
the Easterly side of East 65th Street
and
(formerly
Norwood
Street),
extending back of equal width 1329/12 feet, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
P. P. No. 106-12-045
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of

The City Record
Sublot Nos. 12 and 13 in J.H. Salisbury’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 341,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 3 of Maps, Page 43 of Cuyahoga County Records, and together
forming a parcel of land, bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 65th Street (formerly Norwood
Street) at the Northwesterly corner
of said Sublot No. 13; thence Southerly, along the Easterly line of East
65th Street, 26 feet; thence Easterly
and parallel with the Northerly line
of said Sublot No. 12, 80 feet; thence
Northerly and parallel with the
Westerly line of East 66th Place, 12
feet; thence Easterly, parallel with
the Northerly line of said Sublot No.
12, 52.75 feet to the Westerly line of
a 12 foot alley, now known as East
66th Place; thence Northerly along
said Westerly line of East 66th
Place, 14 feet to the Northeasterly
corner of said Sublot No. 13; thence
Westerly, along the Northerly line
of said Sublot No. 13, 132.75 feet to
the place of beginning, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
P. P. No. 106-12-046
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 11, 12 and 13 in J.H. Salisbury’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 341,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 3 of Maps, Page 43 of Cuyahoga County Records, and together
forming a parcel of land, bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 66th Place, at a point distant
14 feet Southerly, measured along
said Westerly line, from the Northeasterly corner of said Sublot No. 13;
thence Westerly and parallel with
the Northerly line of said Sublot No.
13, 52.75 feet; thence Southerly and
parallel with the Westerly line of
East 66th Place, 46 feet; thence
Easterly
and
parallel
with
the
Southerly line of said Sublot No. 12,
52.75 feet to the Westerly line of
East 66th Place; thence Northerly
along the Westerly line of East 66th
Place, 46 feet to the place of beginning, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.

2107

49
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1424-09.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Quincy Avenue, Quebec Avenue to Board of Cuyahoga
County Commissioners.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Board
of Cuyahoga County Commissioners.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 121-17-028
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
79 in Massey, Mansur and Grant’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 409, as shown
by the recorded plat of said Allotment in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 59
of Cuyahoga County Records, be the
same more less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.

50
P. P. No. 121-17-136
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
51 in Massey, Mansur and Grant’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 409, as shown
by the recorded plat of said Subdivision in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 59
of Cuyahoga County Records. Said
Sublot No. 51 has a frontage of 40
feet on the Southerly side of Quebec
Avenue, S.E., and extending back
between parallel lines 140 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1441-09.
By Council Members Cleveland
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
Saint Luke’s Foundation of Cleveland
for the We Run This City Youth
Marathon Program; and authorizing
the Director to enter into one or more
contracts with the Center for Health
Promotion and Research.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $57,430.00,
and any other funds that may
become available during the grant
term from Saint Luke’s Foundation
of Cleveland, to conduct the We Run
This City Youth Marathon Program;
that the Director is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the summary for
the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1441-09-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the
public hearing on this legislation, is
approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with the
Center for Health Promotion and
Research and other entities or individuals to implement the grant as
described in the file.
Section 6. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1442-09.
By Council Members Cleveland
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the
Director
of
Public
Health to apply for and accept a
grant from United States Environmental Protection Agency, Office of
Prevention, Pesticide and Toxic
Substances, for the Project Empowerment Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to
apply for and accept a grant in the

2108

November 18, 2009
approximate amount of $25,500.00,
and any other funds that may become available during the grant
term from United States Environmental Protection Agency, Office of
Prevention, Pesticide and Toxic
Substances, to conduct the Project
Empowerment Program; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds
under the grant; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
described in the summary for the
grant contained in the file described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1442-09-A, made
a part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1486-09.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 685-07,
passed June 11, 2007, relating to professional services to enter into one
or more contracts for a Citywide
facilities conditions assessment for
the Division of Architecture, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 685-07, passed June 11,
2007, is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 362,
20 SF 371, 20 SF 381, 20 SF 391, 20
SF 503, 20 SF 377, 20 SF 382, 20 SF
392, 20 SF 501, 20 SF 504, 20 SF 508,
20 SF 516, and 20 SF 523, Request
No. 156220.
Section 2. That existing Section 2
of Ordinance No. 685-07, passed June
11, 2007, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency mea-

November 18, 2009
sure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1515-09.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Linwood Avenue to
Tyrone McCoy and Quintina McCoy.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Tyrone McCoy and Quintina McCoy.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-12-022
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
Nos. 14 and 15 and the Westerly 3
feet of Sublot No. 16 in J.H. Salisbury’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 341,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 3 of Maps, Page 43 of Cuyahoga County Records and together
forming a parcel of land having a
frontage of 69 feet 9 inches on the
Southerly side of Linwood Avenue,
N.E., (formerly Beecher Street), and
extending back 125 feet on the Easterly line, 125 feet on the Westerly
line, which is also the Easterly line
of East 65th Street, and having a
rear line of 69 feet 9 inches, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
P. P. No. 106-12-023
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly 30 feet from the front to rear
of Sublot No. 16 in J.H. Salisbury’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 341, as shown

The City Record
by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of
Maps, Page 43 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 30 feet front on
the Southerly side of Linwood Avenue, N.E., (formerly Beecher Street),
and extending back of equal width
125 feet deep, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
P. P. No. 106-12-024
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, Sublot No. 17 in J.H. Salisbury’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 341,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 3 of Maps, Page 43 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 33
feet front on the Southerly side of
Linwood Avenue, N.E. ((formerly
Beecher Street) and extending back
of equal width 125 feet deep, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland.
The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1536-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1, 3, and 6 of
Ordinance No. 727-08, passed June 2,
2008, as amended by Ordinance No.
354-09, passed March 30, 2009, relating to applying for and accepting a

2109

51
grant from SAMHSA for the Case
Management and Cannabis Youth
Treatment for Youth Offenders Program, for the Director of Finance,
on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal Court.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1, 3, and 6 of Ordinance No.
727-08, passed June 2, 2008, as
amended by Ordinance No. 354-09,
passed March 30, 2009, are amended
to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to apply for and accept a
grant from SAMHSA for the Case
Management and Cannabis Youth
Treatment for Youth Offenders Program; and authorizing the Director
to enter into one or more contracts
or contract amendments needed to
implement the grant.
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
apply for and accept a grant payable in annual amounts of $300,000
for a period of 3 years, from SAMHSA to conduct the Case management
and Cannabis Youth treatment for
Young Offenders Program; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the application for the grant
contained in the file described below.
Section 3. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts or
contract amendments as necessary
during the grant term with the University of Akron, Treatment Alternatives to Street Crime, through the
Board of County Commissioners of
Cuyahoga County, WD Consulting
or Wendy Danicourt, and other entities or service providers acceptable
to the grantor to implement the
grant as described in the file.
Section 6. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Finance,
on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal Court, may sign all documents
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1, 3, and 6 of Ordinance
No. 727-08, passed June 2, 2008, as
amended by Ordinance No. 354-09,
passed March 30, 2009, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

52
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1537-09.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to exercise the second option to renew Contract Nos. 61149, 61150, 61151, and
61152 with AT & T for Centrex support, maintenance, installation, design, and repair of circuits, special
circuits, relocation of demarcation
sites and to provide for recurring
service-related costs, for the various
divisions City government.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1881-07, passed November 26, 2007, as amended by Ordinance No. 403-08, passed April 7,
2008, the Director of Finance entered
into Contract Nos. 61149, 61150, 61151,
and 61152 with AT & T for Centrex
support, maintenance, installation,
design, and repair of circuits, special circuits, relocation of demarcation sites and to provide for recurring service-related costs, for the
various divisions City government;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1881-07,
passed November 26, 2007, as amended by Ordinance No. 403-08, passed
April 7, 2008, requires further legislation before exercising the second
one-year option to renew each of
these contracts; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to exercise
the second option to renew Contract
No. 61149 for an additional year with
AT & T for Centrex support, maintenance, installation, design, and
repair of circuits, special circuits,
relocation of demarcation sites and
to provide for recurring servicerelated costs, for the various divisions of City government.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to exercise
the second option to renew Contract
No. 61150 for an additional year with
AT & T for Centrex support, maintenance, installation, design, and repair of circuits, special circuits, relocation of demarcation sites and to
provide for recurring service-related
costs, for the various divisions of
the Department of Public Safety
which are not covered under Section
1 of this ordinance.
Section 3. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to exercise
the second option to renew Contract
No. 61151 for an additional year with
AT & T for Centrex support, maintenance, installation, design, and repair of circuits, special circuits, relocation of demarcation sites and to
provide for recurring service-related
costs, for the various divisions of
the Department of Port Control.
Section 4. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to exercise
the second option to renew Contract
No. 61152 for an additional year with

The City Record
AT & T for Centrex support, maintenance, installation, design, and repair of circuits, special circuits, relocation of demarcation sites and to
provide for recurring service-related
costs, for the various divisions of
the Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties which are not covered under Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 5. That the cost of the services to be performed during the
second optional renewal years of the
contracts’ terms shall not exceed
$3,500,000.
Section 6. That this ordinance constitutes the additional legislative
authority required under Ordinance
No. 1881-07, passed November 26,
2007, as amended by Ordinance No.
403-08, passed April 7, 2008, to exercise these options to renew.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1561-09.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Franklin Avenue to
Amtrust Bank or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Amtrust Bank or designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance is more fully described as
follows:
P. P. No. 002-21-010
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
29, and bounded and described as
follows:

2110

November 18, 2009
Beginning on the Southeasterly
line of Franklin Boulevard, N.W. at
the Northeasterly corner of Parcel
No. 1 of land described in the Certificate of Appropriations filed February 23, 1955, and recorded in Volume 8251, Page 724 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Southerly
along the Easterly line of Parcel No.
1 of land so described, 54.77 feet to
the Northeasterly corner of land conveyed to The New York, Chicago
and St. Louis Railroad Company, by
deed dated January 23, 1954, and
recorded in Volume 8281, Page 172
of Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Westerly along the Northerly line of
land so conveyed, 214.02 feet to the
Southeasterly
line
of
Franklin
Boulevard, N.W.; thence Northeasterly along the Southeasterly line of
Franklin Boulevard, N.W., about
221.36 feet to the place of beginning,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1599-09.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency ordinance designating the Northern Ohio Blanket
Mills as a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate the Northern
Ohio Blanket Mills as a landmark;
and

November 18, 2009
Whereas, the owner of the Northern Ohio Blanket Mills has been
properly notified and has consented
in writing to the proposed designation; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the Northern Ohio Blanket Mills as a landmark and has set forth certain findings of fact constituting the basis
for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Northern Ohio
Blanket Mills, whose street addresses in the City of Cleveland are 316070 West 33rd Street, 3325-3401 Paris
Avenue, S. W., and 3470 St. Rocco’s
Court, S. W., Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Number is
007-32-001, and is also known as the
following described property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as Lot “B” of the
Lot Split prepared for LIN’S OMNI
WORLD, INC. as recorded in Volume
316 Page 74 of Cuyahoga County
Map Records and being all of Sublot
Nos. 33 and 34 and part of Sublot
Nos. 32 and 35 in the M. Althen Subdivision as recorded in Volume 3,
Page 35 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records; all of Sublot Nos. 7, 8, 9 and
part of Sublot No. 6 in the Akin Rice
Subdivision as recorded in Volume 3,
Page 36 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records; and all of Sublot Nos. 3, 4,
8, 23, 24 and 25 in the Andrew
Potzenhart and George Stephan’s
Allotment as recorded in Volume 4,
Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records; all in the Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 67 and more
fully described as follows:
Beginning at a point of intersection of the centerline of Fulton
Road (50 feet wide) with the centerline of Paris Avenue (50 feet
wide); thence North 89° 55' 00" East
along the centerline of Paris Avenue, as aforesaid, 25.00 feet to a
point; thence due South 25.00 feet to
a point of intersection of the easterly line of Fulton Road, as aforesaid, with the southerly line of Paris
Avenue, as aforesaid; thence North
89° 55' 00" East along the southerly line of Paris Avenue, as aforesaid, 180.00 feet to the principal
place of beginning; thence continuing North 89° 55' 00" East along the
southerly line of Paris Avenue, as
aforesaid, 337.85 feet to a point of
intersection with the westerly line
of West 33rd Street (50 feet wide);
thence South 00° 21' 25" East along
the westerly line of West 33rd
Street, as aforesaid, 284.30 feet to a
point of intersection with the northerly line of St. Rocco’s Court (50 feet
wide); thence due West along the
northerly line of St. Rocco’s Court,
as aforesaid, 339.62 feet to a point;
thence due North 283.80 feet to a
point on the southerly line of Paris
Avenue as aforesaid and the principal place of beginning and contain-

The City Record
ing within 2.2088 acres of land,
according to a survey by James B.
Root & Associates dated September,
1998, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Description
approved
by
Greg
Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys
and House Number Section, Division
of Engineering & Construction,
which in its entirety is a property
having special character or special
historical or aesthetic value as part
of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City,
State, or the United States, is designated a landmark under Chapter 161
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1601-09.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
cause payment of the City of Cleveland’s share to the State of Ohio for
the cost of rehabilitating and reconstructing various projects.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council authorizes payment to the State of Ohio
for the City’s share of the cost of
rehabilitating
and
reconstructing
the West 65th Street Bridge, Adelbert Road Bridge, Denison Avenue
Bridge, West 3rd Street Lift Bridge,
West 44th Street Bridge, West 53rd
Street Bridge, Woodland Avenue
Bridge, East 105th Street Bridge,
and rehabilitating and reconstructing Franklin Boulevard, from Fund
Nos. 20 SF 380, 20 SF 383, 20 SF 394,
20 SF 500, 20 SF 506, 20 SF 510, 20
SF 520, and 20 SF 528, Request No.
188540.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1608-09.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Economic Development to enter
into an agreement with Slavic Vil-

2111

53
lage Development for the Villa Storefront Expansion Program through
the use of Ward 12 Neighborhood
Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Economic Development is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Slavic Village Development for the Villa Storefront
Expansion Program for the public
purpose of promoting economic expansion through the use of Ward 12
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $20,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1610-09.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Aging to enter into agreement with
Senior Outreach Services, Inc., for the
Senior Health Promotion and Socialization Program through the use of
Ward 6 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Aging is authorized
to enter into an agreement with
Senior Outreach Services, Inc., for
the Senior Health Promotion and
Socialization Program for the public
purpose of providing social support
programs and activities for senior
citizens residing in the city of
Cleveland through the use of Ward
6 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $20,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

The City Record

54
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

Ord. No. 1611-09.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Community Development to enter
into agreement with Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation for
the Fairfax Computer Learning Program through the use of Ward 6
Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Fairfax Renaissance
Development
Corporation
for
the
Fairfax Computer Learning Program
for the public purpose of providing
computer training to the residents of
Cleveland through the use of Ward 6
Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $7,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions

November 18, 2009
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 2009.
Effective November 13, 2009.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
NO MEETINGS

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Health Promotion and Socialization Program — social support services for seniors —
Senior Outreach Services, Inc., (Ward 06) (O 1610-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2111
Western Reserve Area Agency on Aging Program, 2010 — Western Reserve Agency on Aging —
Grants (O 1388-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2106

Agreements
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 1611-09 — Fairfax Computer Learning Program — Fairfax Renaissance
Development Corp. (Ward 06 NCF) (O 1679-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2072
City of Bratenahl, Ohio for EMS services (O 1663-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2067
Clerk of Council — Mita Marketing LLC (O 1708-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2073
Clerk of Council — Net X Internet — wireless internet service (O 1676-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2072
Community Development — Buy Doan Classroom Apartments on E. 105th St. and sell to
Famicos — HUD (O 1666-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2068
Fairfax Computer Learning Program — Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. (Ward 06 NCF)
(O 1611-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2112
Health Promotion and Socialization Program — social support services for seniors — Senior
Outreach Services, Inc., (Ward 06) (O 1610-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2111
Villa Storefront Expansion Program — Slavic Village Development (Ward 12 NCF)
(O 1608-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2111

Appreciation
Sweet, David C. (R 1707-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2062

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Beachwood Avenue, 12500, (Ward 2) — Vera Belvy, owner — appeal adopted on 10/28/09
(Doc. A-211-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
Bessemer Avenue, 8912, (Ward 5) — LDC Construction, owner — appeal adopted on 10/28/09
(Doc. A-242-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
Bessemer Avenue, 9410, (Ward 5) — Onzo & Bobbie J. Randle, owner — appeal adopted
on 10/28/09 (Doc. A-236-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
Bridge Avenue, 5001, (Ward 175) — Sonia Sanchez, owner — appeal adopted on 10/28/09
(Doc. A-205-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
Carter Road, 1857, (Ward 14) — Smith Facing & Supply, owner — appeal adopted on 11/11/09
(Doc. A-234-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
Castlewood Avenue, 12333, (Ward 9) — Gerald Kidd, owner — appeal adopted on 11/11/09
(Doc. A-256-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089

2112

November 18, 2009

The City Record

55

College Boulevard, 716, (Ward 13) — Desiree Scmitt, owner — no action on extension
of time on 10/28/09 (Doc. A-207-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
Denison Avenue, 1717, (Ward 15) — David Johnson, owner — appeal adopted on 11/11/09
(Doc. A-252-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
Dudley Avenue, 7318, (Ward 17) — D & D Lanscaping Services, Ltd., owner — appeal adopted
on 11/11/09 (Doc. A-270-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
East 103rd Street, 2267, (Ward 6) — My-Linh Nguyen, owner — appeal resolved on 11/11/09
(Doc. A-271-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2088
East 106th Street, 4146, (Ward 2) — Sunmola Obasun, owner — appeal amended and adopted
on 11/11/09 (Doc. A-149-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
East 124th Street, 2673, (Ward 6) — Hapsad Trust, owner — appeal adopted on 11/11/09
(Doc. A-251-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
East 149th Street, 1022, (Ward 10) — Veil Holdings, owner — appeal amended and adopted
on 10/28/09 (Doc. A-210-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
East 155th Street, 857, (Ward 11) — Velpore Young, owner — appeal adopted on
10/28/09 (Doc. A-232-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
East 4th Street, 2079, (Ward 13) — Downtown Buildings, LLC, owner — appeal postponed to
12/09/09 on 10/28/09 (Doc. A-309-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2086
East 56th Place, 3269, (Ward 12) — Seifullah Bukhari, owner — appeal adopted on 11/11/09
(Doc. A-258-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
East 78th Street, 3028, (Ward 5) — Onzo & Bobbie J. Randle, owner — appeal adopted
on 10/28/09 (Doc. A-237-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
East 80th Street, 2228, (Ward 6) — Onzo & Bobbie J. Randle, owner — appeal adopted
on 10/28/09 (Doc. A-249-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
East 84th Street, 1597, (Ward 7) — Richard Bros. Construction Inc., owner — appeal
resolved on 11/11/09 (Doc. A-272-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2088
East 89th Street, 2437, (Ward 6) — Jessica Diann Harris, owner — appeal resolved on
11/11/09 (Doc. A-335-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
East 90th Street, 1327, (Ward 7) — Lottie Sims, owner — appeal adopted on 11/11/09
(Doc. A-260-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
East 90th Street, 2298, (Ward 6) — Lottie Sims, owner — appeal adopted on 11/11/09
(Doc. A-261-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
East 93rd Street, 1393, (Ward 7) — Michael C. Garner, owner — appeal adopted on 11/11/09
(Doc. A-263-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
East Boulevard, 11150, (Ward 6) — Jessica Diann Harris, owner — appeal resolved on
10/28/09 (Doc. A-351-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
Eddy Road, 838, (Ward 9) — Sip One, owner — appeal resolved on 11/11/09
(Doc. A-248-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2088
Elsa Avenue, 8011, (Ward 17) — Majorie E. Shew, owner — appeal adopted on 10/28/09
(Doc. A-240-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
Fern Court, 2118, (Ward 15) — Demetruis Bennett, owner — appeal adopted on 10/28/09
(Doc. A-245-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
Franklin Avenue, 5604, (Ward 17) — Darwin W. McClellan, owner — appeal adopted on
10/28/09 (Doc. A-246-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
Jewett Avenue, 4801, (Ward 5) — Bozo Gazic, owner — appeal resolved on 11/11/09
(Doc. A-269-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2088
Lakeshore Boulevard, 14713, (Ward 11) — Great Lakes Fence Company, owner —
appeal adopted on 11/11/09 (Doc. A-254-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
Lakeview Road, 877, (Ward 9) — Holly Hawk, owner — appeal resolved on 11/11/09
(Doc. A-275-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2088
Lorain Avenue, 5710, (Ward 17) — Petrugkaza, Inc., owner — appeal adopted on
10/28/09 (Doc. A-244-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
Matherson Avenue, 12109, (Ward 19) — Patricia Lewis, owner — appeal adopted on 11/11/09
(Doc. A-274-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
Melbourne Avenue, 3730, (Ward 21) — Jeffrey Liebenguth & Gail Liebenguth, owners —
appeal adopted on 11/11/09 (Doc. A-253-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
Melbourne Avenue, 3730, (Ward 6) — Cuyahoga County Board of Commisioners, owner —
appeal resolved on 11/11/09 (Doc. A-367-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
Mound Avenue, 5601, (Ward 12) — LDC Construction, owner — appeal adopted on 10/28/09
(Doc. A-241-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
Mt. Overlook Avenue, 11017, (Ward 6) — John R. Malone, owner — appeal resolved on
11/11/09 (Doc. A-257-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2088
Nathaniel Avenue, 969, (Ward 11) — Cindi & Pete Ciccotti, owner — appeal adopted on
10/28/09 (Doc. A-233-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
Parkview Avenue, 10401, (Ward 4) — Jacqueline Goodman, owner — appeal adopted on 10/28/09
(Doc. A-231-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087

2113

The City Record

56

November 18, 2009

Pearl Road, 5100, (Ward 16) — Alex Solomon Family Ltd., Partnership, owner — appeal
postponed to a later date 11/11/09 (Doc. A-168-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
Praha Avenue, 5110, (Ward 5) — Quality Stamping Products, owner — appeal adopted on
11/11/09 (Doc. A-264-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
Professor Street, 2441-43 , (Ward 13) — Tom Bell, owner — extension of time granted on
10/28/09 (Doc. A-208-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
School Avenue, 15618, (Ward 11) — Bridget Harper, owner — no action docket will be
rescheduled 10/28/09 (Doc. A-230-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2084
Somerset Avenue, 10013, (Ward 8) — Roy O. Robinson, owner — appeal adopted on 10/28/09
(Doc. A-229-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
Somerset Avenue, 10202, (Ward 8) — JP Morgan Chase Bank, fka Washington Mutual Bank,
owner — appeal adopted on 11/11/09 (Doc. A-255-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
Somerset Avenue, 10214, (Ward 8) — Samuel Orr, owner — appeal adopted on 10/28/09
(Doc. A-235-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
Somerset Avenue, 10217, (Ward 12) — Plymouth Park Tax Services, LLC, owner —
appeal adopted on 10/28/09 (Doc. A-250-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
Somerset Avenue, 10217, (Ward 8) — Samuel Orr, owner — appeal adopted on 10/28/09
(Doc. A-262-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
Superior Avenue, 5703, (Ward 13) — Triple R Associates, Ltd., owner — appeal resolved on
11/11/09 (Doc. A-238-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
West 14th Street, 2000, (Ward 13) — Beautiful Signage, Ltd. & Marketing Holdings Inc.,
owner — appeal rescheduled to 11/25/09 on 11/11/09 (Doc. A-265-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2088
West 14th Street, 2000, (Ward 13) — Bojack’s Meat & Poultry, Inc., owner —
appeal postponed to 11/25/09 on 11/11/09 (Doc. A-279-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2088
West 14th Street, 2154, (Ward 13) — George Zaboura, owner — appeal adopted on 10/28/09
(Doc. A-247-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087
West 28th Street, 1947, (Ward 13) — Pat Conway, owner — appeal resolved on 11/11/09
(Doc. A-372-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
West 46th Streeet, 3223, (Ward 14) — Kakiesha Cole, owner — appeal postponed to 12/09/09
on 11/11/09 (Doc. A-276-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2088
West 47th Street, 1855-57, (Ward 13) — Marcia Brentson, owner — extension of time granted
on 11/11/09 (Doc. A-91-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
West 47th Street, 1867, (Ward 13) — Marcia Brentson, owner — extension of time granted
on 11/11/09 (Doc. A-90-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
Whitmore Avenue, 11408, (Ward 9) — Dr. Robert Hobbs, owner — appeal adopted on 11/11/09
(Doc. A-259-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
Woodland Avenue, 10734, (Ward 6) — Dawson Temple c/o David Dawson, owner —
appeal adopted on 10/28/09 (Doc. A-281-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2087

Board of Control — Cleveland Municipal Court
Criminal and Civil filing system — per Ord. 392-09 to Independence Office & Business
Supply Co., Inc. — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 508-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2076

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
AMP-Ohio generating facility participation study — modify Contract #68941 per BOC Res.
45-09 — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 509-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2076

Board of Control — Community Development Department
East 110th Street, 1399 (Ward 9) — PPN 120-08-002 — Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
(BOC Res. 516-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2077
Iowa Avenue, 11702 (Ward 9) — PPN 110-06-023 (easterly half) — Alisa A. Hill
(BOC Res. 519-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2078
Iowa Avenue, 11702 (Ward 9) — PPN 110-06-023 (westerly half) — June Mathis
(BOC Res. 518-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2078
West 48th Street, 2045 (Ward 14) — PPN 006-20-141 — Urban Community School
(BOC Res. 517-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2078

Board of Control — Finance Department
Criminal and Civil filing system — per Ord. 392-09 to Independence Office & Business
Supply Co., Inc. — behalf of Cleveland Municipal Court (BOC Res. 508-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2076
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in October 2009 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 507-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2076

2114

November 18, 2009

The City Record

57

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East 110th Street, 1399 (Ward 9) — PPN 120-08-002 — Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
(BOC Res. 516-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2077
Iowa Avenue, 11702 (Ward 9) — PPN 110-06-023 (easterly half) — Alisa A. Hill
(BOC Res. 519-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2078
Iowa Avenue, 11702 (Ward 9) — PPN 110-06-023 (westerly half) — June Mathis
(BOC Res. 518-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2078
West 48th Street, 2045 (Ward 14) — PPN 006-20-141 — Urban Community School
(BOC Res. 517-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2078

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Chrysler parts and labor — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Ganley Chrysler Jeep, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 513-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2077
Radiator repair — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Erie Shore Industrial Radiator, LLC —
Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 512-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2077
Tires, tubes and service — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Wingfoot Commercial Tire
Systems, LLC — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 510-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2076
Towing services — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Charlie’s Towing Service, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 514-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2077

Board of Control — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Health Centers rehabilitation — amend BOC Res. 351-09, 489-09
(BOC Res. 515-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2077

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
AMP-Ohio generating facility participation study — modify Contract #68941 per
BOC Res. 45-09 — Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 509-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2076
Health Centers rehabilitation — amend BOC Res. 351-09, 489-09 —
Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 515-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2077

Board of Control — Public Health Department
Health Centers rehabilitation — amend BOC Res. 351-09, 489-09 — Dept. of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 515-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2077

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Cab and chassis with front loading packer body — per Ord. 591-08, 1849-08 —
all bids rejected — Division of Waste Collection and Disposal
(BOC Res. 511-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2076
Chrysler parts and labor — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Ganley Chrysler Jeep, Inc. —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 513-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2077
Radiator repair — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Erie Shore Industrial Radiator, LLC —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 512-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2077
Tires, tubes and service — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Wingfoot Commercial Tire
Systems, LLC — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(BOC Res. 510-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2076
Towing services — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Charlie’s Towing Service, Inc. —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 514-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2077

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
AMP-Ohio generating facility participation study — modify Contract #68941
per BOC Res. 45-09 — Division of Cleveland Public Power
(BOC Res. 509-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2076

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in October 2009 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 507-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2076

2115

The City Record

58

November 18, 2009

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Chrysler parts and labor — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Ganley Chrysler Jeep, Inc. —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 513-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2077
Criminal and Civil filing system — per Ord. 392-09 to Independence Office & Business
Supply Co., Inc. — behalf of Cleveland Municipal Court, Dept. of Finance
(BOC Res. 508-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2076
Radiator repair — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Erie Shore Industrial Radiator, LLC —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 512-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2077
Tires, tubes and service — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Wingfoot Commercial Tire
Systems, LLC — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of
Public Service (BOC Res. 510-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2076
Towing services — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Charlie’s Towing Service, Inc. —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 514-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2077

Board of Control — Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Cab and chassis with front loading packer body — per Ord. 591-08, 1849-08 —
all bids rejected — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 511-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2076

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Broadview Road, 4965, (Ward 16) — CSX Railroad, owner, and CBS Outdoor and Tim Keaton,
tenant — appeal denied and adopted on 11/16/09 (Cal. 08-205) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2084
East 55th Street, 3651, (Ward 12) — J & G Development Corporation, owner and Jennie Hurt,
tenant — appeal dismissed on 11/16/2009 (Cal. 09-221). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2084
East 57th Street, 1980, (Ward 5) — WJM Enterprises, Inc. and Bill Morton, III, owners —
appeal granted and adopted on 11/16/09 (Cal. 09-214). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2084
Skyview Road, 339, (Ward 15) — William Kirchner, owner — appeal postponed to 1/4/10 on
11/16/2009 (Cal. 09-215) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2084
The Blaze Building Corporation, by and through their attorney, David Cuppage —
appeal denied and adopted on 11/16/09 (Cal. 09-213). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2084
Waterloo Road, 155515-19, (Ward 11) — Negative Space Realty LLC and
Sarit Zamir, owners — appeal granted and adopted on 11/16/09
(Cal. 09-212) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2084
West 157th Street, 4656, (Ward 20) — Dennis Frinzl, owner — appeal heard on 11/16/2009
(Cal. 09-216) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2084
West 25th Street, 1616, (Ward 13) — Ojala Properties, LLC, owner and
Wael Ayyad, tenant — appeal postponed to 1/4/10 on 11/16/2009
(Cal. 09-218) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2084

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Denison Avenue, 7050-7100, (Ward 17) — Alex Abou Chebel, vendor, and
Thahbieh Assad, vendee, and Mike Assad, tenant — appeal to be heard
on 11/30/2009 (Cal. 09-230) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2084
East 152nd Street, 740, (Ward 10) — City of God Baptist Fellowship, owner —
appeal to be heard on 11/30/2009 (Cal. 09-228) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2084
Fleet Avenue, 5729, (Ward 12) — The David Wolfson Trust, owner — appeal to be heard on
11/30/2009 (Cal. 09-225) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2083
Lorain Avenue, 6918, (Ward 17) — GM Realty Company, owner, and Westside Automotive, Inc.,
lesee — appeal to be heard on 11/30/2009 (Cal. 09-226) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2083
Schell Avenue, 2320, (Ward 16) — Tony Kril, owner — appeal to be heard on 11/30/2009
(Cal. 09-224) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2083

Board of County Commissioners
Quincy Ave. & Quebec Ave. — PPN 121-17-028 / 136 — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 06)
(O 1424-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2107

Burke Lakefront Airport
Lease Agreement with AirNet Systems, Inc. (O 850-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2096

2116

November 18, 2009

The City Record

59

Cemeteries
Denison Cemetery — change name to — Brooklyn Centre Burying Ground (O 1682-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2073

Cemeteries Division
Amend various sect(s) of Chapter 557 — Relating to cemeteries (O 1659-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2062

City Council
Barrett Brothers — make payment — Record Of Legislation book (O 1677-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2072
Codified Ordinances — Parts IV and VI supplements — update, print, index and bind —
City Contract No. 60428 — West Services (O 1675-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2072
Franklin, Sandra — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore (F 1691-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Storage of documents — make payment — Iron Mountain Information Management (O 1678-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2072

City Clerk
Clerk of Council — agreement — Net X Internet — wireless internet service (O 1676-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2072
Franklin, Sandra — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore (F 1691-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061

City of Bratenahl
Agreement with City of Bratenahl, Ohio for EMS services (O 1663-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2067

City of Cleveland Bids
Automated Call Center — Department of Finance — behalf of Cleveland Municipal Court —
bid due December 3, 2009(advertised 11/11/2009 and 11/18/2009). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2090
Fuel dispensing system maintenance and repair — Department of Public Service —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 686-07 — bid due December 10, 2009
(advertised 11/18/2009 and 11/25/2009) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2090
Health Center Facility upgrades, Bid Package C-Interior Renovations and window
replacement — Department of Public Service — Division of Architecture —
per Ord. 487-07 — bid due December 10, 2009 (advertised 11/18/2009 and 11/25/2009). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2090
Kitchen and dining room renovations at North Point Transitional Men’s Shelter —
Department of Public Service — Division of Architecture — per Ord. 869-08 —
bid due December 9, 2009 (advertised 11/18/2009 and 11/25/2009) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2090
Recyclable materials processing (Contract EW Recycling) — Department of
Public Service — Division of Waste Collection and Disposal — per Ord. 543-09 —
bid due December 11, 2009 (advertised 11/11/2009 and 11/18/2009) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2090
Ridge Road Street Facility wall repair — Department of Public Service —
Division of Architecture — bid due December 9, 2009
(advertised 11/18/2009 and 11/25/2009) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2090
Valves, actuators and appurtenances — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water — per Ord. 696-09 — bid due December 3, 2009
(advertised 11/11/2009 and 11/18/2009) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2090

City Planning Commission
Amend Sect(s) 1,2,3,4,5 & 6 of Ord. No. 556-09 — Bellaire Rd. (between Hirst Avenue and
West 130th St) — change the zoning (Ward 19) (O 1069-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2100
Apply for & accept NOACA Livable Communities Grant Program; transportation project planning
(O 1671-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2070
Baldwin Road S.E. — vacate a portion — Service Department (Ward 06) (O 1054-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2098
E. of Warner Rd., & S. of Tioga Ave. — vacate a portion — Service Department (Ward 02)
(O 1057-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2100
E.104th St., — intent to vacate a portion — Service Department (Ward 03) (R 1352-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2090
East 33rd St., — vacate a portion — Service Department (Ward 05) (O 1374-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2105
East 59th St. — intention to vacate a portion — Service Department (Ward 05) (R 1413-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2091
East 61 St. — intention to vacate a portion — Service Department (Ward 05) (R 1414-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2091
East 71st Street — vacate a portion — Service Department (Ward 05) (O 1055-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2099
Linton Avenue S.E. — intent to vacate a portion — Service Department (Ward 12) (R 1059-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2091
Live-Work Overlay zoning district — E.34th St., E. 36th St. and St. Clair Ave. (O 1418-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
Northern Ohio Blanket Mills — designate as landmark (Ward 14) (O 1599-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2110
Rocky River Dr., (between Woodbury Ave. and Puritas Ave) — change the zoning (Ward 21)
(O 413-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2093

2117

The City Record

60

November 18, 2009

Simms St. (N.W.) , Sanders Ct., (N.W.) , Kramer Ct. (N.W.) — vacate a portion — Service
Department (Ward 13) (O 1373-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2105
West 27th Place — vacate a portion — Service Department (Ward 13) (O 1056-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2099
West 52nd Pl. — vacate a portion — Service Department (Ward 16) (O 1375-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2105
Woodland Ave. (north) & E. 81St., (West & East) — vacate a portion — Service Department
(Ward 06) (O 1058-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2100

Clerk of Council
Agreement — Net X Internet — wireless internet service (O 1676-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2072
Agreement — Mita Marketing LLC (O 1708-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2073
Codified Ordinances — Parts IV and VI supplements — update, print, index and bind —
City Contract No. 60428 — West Services (O 1675-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2072
Franklin, Sandra — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore (F 1691-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Storage of documents — make payment — Iron Mountain Information Management (O 1678-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2072

Cleveland Municipal Court
Amend title & Sect(s) 1,3,6 of Ord. No. 727-08 — Case Management and Cannabis Youth
Treatment for Youth Offenders Program, — SAMHSA Grant (O 1536-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2109

Codified Ordinances
Amend various sect(s) of Chapter 557 — Relating to cemeteries (O 1659-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2062
Codified Ordinances — Parts IV and VI supplements — update, print, index and bind — City
Contract No. 60428 — West Services (O 1675-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2072
Enact new Sect(s) 523.25 & 523.26 — interconnection service for distributed generation
and net metering service (O 1662-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2067
Enact new Sect. 551.022 — Solid Waste fees (O 1657-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2062
Enacting new Sect(s) 187A.01 to 187A.06 and 187A.99 — Local Producer and Sustainable
Business Preference Code (O 1660-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2065

Communications
Franklin, Sandra — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore (F 1691-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061

Community Development Block Grant Program
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 599-09 — Low Interest Loan and Grant Program — expend CDBG and
Federal Home funds — contract with various agencies — Community Development Dept.
(O 1683-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2073

Community Development Department
Aetna Rd., 9108 — PPN 133-24-003 — Land Reutilization Program — Tyson T. Mitchell
(Ward 02) (O 1267-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2104
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 599-09 — Low Interest Loan and Grant Program — expend CDBG and
Federal Home funds — contract with various agencies (O 1683-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2073
Buy Doan Classroom Apartments on E. 105th St. and sell to Famicos — HUD (O 1666-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2068
Contracts with various non-profit agencies & County for homeless assistance (O 1664-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2068
East 65th St. — PPN 106-12-015 / 016 / 017 / 045 / 046 — Land Reutilization Program —
Artist Duncan & Phyllis Duncan (Ward 07) (O 1423-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2106
Franklin Ave. — PPN 002-21-010 — Land Reutilization Program — Amtrust Bank (Ward 17) (O 1561-09) . . . . . . 2110
Grant easement to Vine Court Properties LLC, on Detroit Ave. (O 1665-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2068
Linwood Ave. — PPN 106-12-022/ 023/ 024 — Land Reutilization Program — Tyrone McCoy
& Quintina McCoy (Ward 07) (O 1515-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2109
Quincy Ave. & Quebec Ave. — PPN 121-17-028 / 136 — Land Reutilization Program — Board of
County Commissioners (Ward 06) (O 1424-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2107
Stanard Ave., — PPN 104-11-074 — Land Reutilization Program — Cuy. Co. Board
of Developmental Disabilities (Ward 13) (O 1391-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2106
West 54th St., 3260 — PPN 016-10-082 — Land Reutilization Program — Joseph Maximovich &
Emeric Maximovich (Ward 17) (O 1266-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2104

Community Relations
Juvenile Accountability Block Grant Program — Cuy. Co. Dept. of Justice Affairs Criminal
Justice Services Agency (O 1670-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2070

2118

November 18, 2009

The City Record

61

Condolences
Burks, Gussie (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Dawson, Jr., Benjamin C. (R 1694-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Patton, John T. (R 1697-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Young, Brandon (R 1696-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061

Congratulations
Copeland, Michael A. (R 1700-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Magnificat Cross Country Team (R 1699-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Soltesz, Alexandra Ella (R 1698-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
South West Citizens Area Council (R 1701-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061

Contracts
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 685-07 — Citywide Facilities conditions assessment — Architecture
Division (O 1486-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2108
Amend Sect. 9 of Ord. No. 687-08 — rehabilitate Broadway Avenue (I-77 to the east
corporation line) — grant (O 1053-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2098
Codified Ordinances — Parts IV and VI supplements — update, print, index and bind — City
Contract No. 60428 — West Services (O 1675-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2072
Community Development — various non-profit agencies & County for homeless assistance
(O 1664-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2068
Consolidated Maintenance Facility Project (Phase 3)(O 904-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2096
Economic Development — Apply for & Accept Clean Ohio Grant & contracts for Miceli’s Dairy
(O 1668-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2069
Exercise option to renew Centrex contracts 61149, 61150, 61151, 61152 with AT & T
for Centrex support (O 1537-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2110
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 67417 — Unison Consulting, Inc. — support the
airport-wide concessions development(O 1556-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2075
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 67708 with Leader Electric (modify electrical
systems at airport properties) (O 1545-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2075
Port Control & Utilities Dept. — Amend Contract No. 68710 — Early Morning Software
(develop a data collection and analysis system) (O 1681-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2073
Port Control Department — public improvement — repairing or replacing roofs (O 1047-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2097
Public Safety Central Core Room (upgrading the mechanical & electrical systems) — public
improvement (O 864-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2096
Repeal Ord. No. 1552-09 — Priority Dispatch contract (O 1680-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2073

County Auditor
Tax Advances, Year 2010 — request County Auditor — City Treasury — Finance
Department (R 1672-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2070

Cuyahoga County
Community Development — contracts with various non-profit agencies & County for homeless
assistance (O 1664-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2068
Juvenile Accountability Block Grant Program — Dept. of Justice Affairs Criminal Justice
Services Agency (O 1670-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2070
Stanard Ave. — PPN 104-11-074 — Land Reutilization Program — Cuy. Co. Board of
Developmental Disabilities (Ward 13) (O 1391-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2106

Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization
Detroit Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — two bus shelters — Service Dept. (Ward 17)
(O 1251-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2103

Easements
Community Development — Grant easement to Vine Court Properties LLC, on Detroit Ave.
(O 1665-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2068

Economic Development Department
Apply for & Accept Clean Ohio Grant & contracts for Miceli’s Dairy (O 1668-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2069
Professional consultants — to implement a Climate Action Plan — Sustainable Cleveland 2019
Follow — Up Plan (O 1669-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2070

2119

The City Record

62

November 18, 2009

Resolution supporting county application to Clean Ohio Council for industrial bldgs. &
Art Metals sites (R 1673-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2071
Tax Incentive Review Council’s Year 2008 recommendations (O 1667-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2069

Emergency Medical Service Division
Agreement with City of Bratenahl, Ohio for EMS services (O 1663-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2067

Encroachments
Detroit Ave. — right-of-way — two bus shelters — Detroit Shoreway Com. Dev. Organization —
Service Dept. (Ward 17) (O 1251-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2103
East 49th St., 1390 — right-of-way — entrance canopy & two support posts — Ohio Technical
College — Service Department (Ward 13) (O 1052-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2098
East 53rd St. — right-of-way — parking area — Lakeside Commerce, LLC — Service Department
(Ward 13) (O 1051-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2097
Lorain Ave. — right-of-way — bus shelter — David H. Ellison — Service Dept. (Ward
13) (O 1250-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2103

Environmental Protection Agency
Project Empowerment Program — Grant (O 1442-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2108

Famicos Foundation
Community Development — Buy Doan Classroom Apartments on E. 105th St. and sell to
Famicos — HUD (O 1666-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2068

Fees
Professional consultants to assess City fees (O 1658-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2062

Finance Department
Amend title & Sect(s) 1,3,6 of Ord. No. 727-08 — Case Management and Cannabis Youth
Treatment for Youth Offenders Program, — SAMHSA Grant — Cleveland Municipal Court
(O 1536-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2109
Barrett Brothers — make payment — Record Of Legislation book (O 1677-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2072
Codified Ordinances — Parts IV and VI supplements — update, print, index and bind — City
Contract No. 60428 — West Services (O 1675-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2072
Enact new Sect. 551.022 — Solid Waste fees (O 1657-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2062
Enacting new Sect(s) 187A.01 to 187A.06 and 187A.99 — Local Producer and Sustainable
Business Preference Code (O 1660-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2065
Exercise option to renew Centrex contracts 61149, 61150, 61151, 61152 with AT & T
for Centrex support (O 1537-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2110
Professional consultants to assess City fees (O 1658-09) 2062
Storage of documents — make payment — Iron Mountain Information Management (O 1678-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2072
Tax Advances, Year 2010 — request County Auditor — City Treasury — Finance
Department (R 1672-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2070

Grants
Amend Sect. 9 of Ord. No. 687-08 — rehabilitate Broadway Avenue (I-77 to the east
corporation line) (O 1053-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2098
Amend title & Sect(s) 1,3,6 of Ord. No. 727-08 — Case Management and Cannabis Youth
Treatment for Youth Offenders Program, — SAMHSA Grant — Cleveland Municipal Court
(O 1536-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2109
Apply for & accept NOACA Livable Communities Grant Program; transportation project planning
(O 1671-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2070
Economic Development — Apply for & Accept Clean Ohio Grant & contracts for Miceli’s Dairy (O 1668-09) . . . . . 2069
Juvenile Accountability Block Grant Program — Cuy. Co. Dept. of Justice Affairs Criminal
Justice Services Agency (O 1670-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2070
Project Empowerment Program — U.S. EPA (O 1442-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2108
We Run This City Youth Marathon Program — Saint Luke’s Foundation of Cleveland (O 1441-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . 2108
Western Reserve Area Agency on Aging Program, 2010 — Western Reserve Agency on Aging
(O 1388-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2106

2120

November 18, 2009

The City Record

63

Health Department
Project Empowerment Program — Grant — U.S. EPA (O 1442-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2108
We Run This City Youth Marathon Program — Grant — Saint Luke’s Foundation of Cleveland
(O 1441-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2108

Homeless
Community Development — contracts with various non-profit agencies & County for homeless
assistance (O 1664-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2068

Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
Community Development — Buy Doan Classroom Apartments on E. 105th St. and sell to
Famicos — HUD (O 1666-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2068

Landmark Commission
Northern Ohio Blanket Mills — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 14)
(O 1599-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2110

Land Reutilization Program
Aetna Rd., 9108 — PPN 133-24-003 — Tyson T. Mitchell (Ward 02) (O 1267-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2104
East 65th St. — PPN 106-12-015 / 016 / 017 / 045 / 046 — Artist Duncan & Phyllis Duncan
(Ward 07) (O 1423-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2106
Franklin Ave. — PPN 002-21-010 — Amtrust Bank (Ward 17) (O 1561-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2110
Linwood Ave. — PPN 106-12-022/ 023/ 024 — Tyrone McCoy & Quintina McCoy (Ward 07)
(O 1515-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2109
Quincy Ave. & Quebec Ave. — PPN 121-17-028 / 136 — Board of County Commissioners
(Ward 06) (O 1424-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2107
Stanard Ave. — PPN 104-11-074 — Cuy. Co. Board of Developmental Disabilities (Ward 13)
(O 1391-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2106
West 54th St., 3260 — PPN 016-10-082 — Joseph Maximovich & Emeric Maximovich (Ward 17)
(O 1266-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2104

Lease Agreement
AirNet Systems, Inc. (O 850-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2096

Liquor Permits
Cedar Ave., 7002 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1129-09 (Ward 05) (R 1612-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2091
Clifton Blvd., 10427 — transfer of location application (Ward 18) (F 1692-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
East 156th St., 383 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1140-09 (Ward 11)
(R 1686-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2074
East 185th St., 910 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 11) (R 1685-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2074
East 93rd St., 3363 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1133-09 (Ward 05)
(R 1613-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2091
Euclid Ave., 2300 (Rooms 100, 101 & patio) — objection to transfer of Liquor License (Ward
07) (R 1615-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2092
Euclid Ave., 2300(withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res. 1615-09
(Ward 07) (R 1684-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2073
Harvard Ave., 17426 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 958-09 (Ward 01)
(R 1689-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2075
Lorain Ave., 13712 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 1154-09 (Ward 20)
(R 1619-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2093
Lorain Ave., 14910 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1173-09 (Ward 21)
(R 1616-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2092
Madison Ave., 8309 (1st. & 2nd fl.) — withdraw objection to renewal (Ward 17) (R 1690-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2075
Ohio Ave., 15015 — objection to issuance (Ward 01) (R 1688-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2075
Ridge Rd., 3837 — objection to issuance (Ward 16) (R 1617-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2092
St. Clair Ave., 18506 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1143-09 (Ward
11) (R 1687-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2074
Triskett Rd., 15239 — stock transfer application (Ward 21) (F 1693-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Union Ave., 12408 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1148-09 (Ward 03) (R 1618-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2093
Woodland Ave., 5611 — withdraw objection to transfer of Liquor License — repeal Res.
1283-09 (Ward 05) (R 1614-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2092

2121

The City Record

64

November 18, 2009

Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
Service Department — Cause payment to ODOT for rehabilitating and reconstructing various
projects (O 1601-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2111

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Denison Cemetery — change name to — Brooklyn Centre Burying Ground (O 1682-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2073

Permits
Detroit Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — two bus shelters — Detroit Shoreway Com. Dev.
Organization — Service Dept. (Ward 17) (O 1251-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2103
Lorain Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — bus shelter — David H. Ellison — Service Dept.
(Ward 13) (O 1250-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2103

Personnel Department
Amend Sect. 47 of Ord. No. 947-08 — Salary and wage schedules (O 1674-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2071

Port Control Department
Consolidated Maintenance Facility Project (Phase 3)(O 904-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2096
Lease Agreement with AirNet Systems, Inc. (O 850-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2096
Port Control & Utilities Dept. — Amend Contract No. 68710 — Early Morning Software
(develop a data collection and analysis system) (O 1681-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2073
Public improvement contracts — repairing or replacing roofs (O 1047-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2097

Professional Service
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 685-07 — Citywide Facilities conditions assessment — Architecture
Division (O 1486-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2108
Amend title & Sect(s) 1& 2 of Ord. No. 1260-06 — Human Resource Enhancement Program
(Phase II and Phase III) (O 1661-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2066
Assess City fees (O 1658-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2062
Consolidated Maintenance Facility Project (Phase 3)(O 904-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2096
Economic Development — to implement a Climate Action Plan — Sustainable Cleveland 2019
Follow — Up Plan (O 1669-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2070

Public Hearings (Notices)
Live-Work Overlay zoning district — E.34th St., E. 36th St. and St. Clair Ave. (O 1418-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089

Public Improvement
Amend Sect. 9 of Ord. No. 687-08 — rehabilitate Broadway Avenue (I-77 to the east
corporation line) — grant (O 1053-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2098
Consolidated Maintenance Facility Project (Phase 3)(O 904-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2096
Port Control Department — contracts — repairing or replacing roofs (O 1047-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2097
Public Safety Central Core Room (upgrading the mechanical & electrical systems) — contracts
(O 864-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2096

Public Utilities Department
Amend title & Sect(s) 1& 2 of Ord. No. 1260-06 — Human Resource Enhancement Program (Phase
II and Phase III) — professional consultants (O 1661-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2066
Enact new Sect(s) 523.25 & 523.26 — interconnection service for distributed generation
and net metering service (O 1662-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2067
Port Control & Utilities Dept. — Amend Contract No. 68710 — Early Morning Software
(develop a data collection and analysis system) (O 1681-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2073

Recognition Resolutions
Cleveland Culinary Celebration Week & The Fabulous Food Show (R 1703-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2062
32nd degree Masons of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, Valley of Cleveland (R 1705-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2062
Cuyahoga County Soldiers’ & Sailors’ Monument — Monumental Access Day (R 1704-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2062
Phillips, Rev. Aaron L. (R 1706-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2062
R.J. Boland’s Restaurant & American Saloon (R 1702-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2062

2122

November 18, 2009

The City Record

65

Repealed Ordinances & Resolutions
Repeal Ord. No. 1552-09 — Priority Dispatch contract (O 1680-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2073

Resolution of Support
Resolution supporting county application to Clean Ohio Council for industrial Bldgs. &
Art Metals sites (R 1673-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2071

Safety Department
Agreement with City of Bratenahl, Ohio for EMS services (O 1663-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2067
Central Core Room (upgrading the mechanical & electrical systems) — public improvement
contracts (O 864-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2096
Repeal Ord. No. 1552-09 — Priority Dispatch contract (O 1680-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2073

Salaries
Amend Sect. 47 of Ord. No. 947-08 — Salary and wage schedules (O 1674-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2071

Service Department
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 685-07 — Citywide Facilities conditions assessment — Architecture
Division (O 1486-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2108
Amend Sect. 9 of Ord. No. 687-08 — rehabilitate Broadway Avenue (I-77 to the east
corporation line) — grant (O 1053-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2098
Baldwin Road S.E. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 06) (O 1054-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2098
Cause payment to ODOT for rehabilitating and reconstructing various projects (O 1601-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2111
Detroit Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — two bus shelters — Detroit Shoreway Com. Dev.
Organization (Ward 17) (O 1251-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2103
E. of Warner Rd., & S. of Tioga Ave. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission
(Ward 02) (O 1057-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2100
E.104th St., — intent to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (R 1352-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2090
East 33rd St., — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 05) (O 1374-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2105
East 49th St., 1390 — encroach into right-of-way — entrance canopy & two support posts —
Ohio Technical College (Ward 13) (O 1052-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2098
East 53rd St. — encroach into right-of-way — parking area — Lakeside Commerce, LLC
(Ward 13) (O 1051-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2097
East 59th St. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 05)
(R 1413-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2091
East 61 St. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 05) (R 1414-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2091
East 71st Street — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 05) (O 1055-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2099
Linton Avenue S.E. — intent to vacate a portion — City Planning Commision (Ward 12)
(R 1059-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2091
Lorain Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — bus shelter — David H. Ellison (Ward 13) (O 1250-09) . . . . . . . . . . . 2103
Simms St. (N.W.) , Sanders Ct., (N.W.) , Kramer Ct. (N.W.) — vacate a portion — City
Planning Commission (Ward 13) (O 1373-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2105
West 27th Place — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 13) (O 1056-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2099
West 52nd Pl. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 16) (O 1375-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2105
Woodland Ave. (north) & E. 81St., (West & East) — vacate a portion — City Planning
Commission (Ward 06) (O 1058-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2100

Slavic Village Development Corporation
Villa Storefront Expansion Program — agreement (Ward 12 NCF) (O 1608-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2111

State of Ohio
Service Department — Cause payment to ODOT for rehabilitating and reconstructing various
projects (O 1601-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2111

Street Vacation
Baldwin Road S.E. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service Department
(Ward 06) (O 1054-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2098
E. of Warner Rd., & S. of Tioga Ave. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission —
Service Department (Ward 02) (O 1057-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2100
E.104th St., — intent to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service Department
(Ward 03) (R 1352-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2090

2123

The City Record

66

November 18, 2009

East 33rd St., — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service Department
(Ward 05) (O 1374-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2105
East 59th St. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service
Department (Ward 05) (R 1413-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2091
East 61 St. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service Department
(Ward 05) (R 1414-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2091
East 71st Street — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service Department
(Ward 05) (O 1055-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2099
Linton Avenue S.E. — intent to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service
Department (Ward 12) (R 1059-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2091
Simms St. (N.W.) , Sanders Ct., (N.W.) , Kramer Ct. (N.W.) — vacate a portion — City
Planning Commission — Service Department (Ward 13) (O 1373-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2105
West 27th Place — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service Department
(Ward 13) (O 1056-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2099
West 52nd Pl. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service Department
(Ward 16) (O 1375-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2105
Woodland Ave. (north) & E. 81St., (West & East) — vacate a portion — City Planning
Commission — Service Department (Ward 06) (O 1058-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2100

Taxes
Tax Incentive Review Council’s Year 2008 recommendations (O 1667-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2069

Ward 1
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Harvard Ave., 17426 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 958-09 — liquor permit
(Ward 01) (R 1689-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2075
Ohio Ave., 15015 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 1688-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2075

Ward 2
Aetna Rd., 9108 — PPN 133-24-003 — Land Reutilization Program — Tyson T. Mitchell
(O 1267-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2104
Amend Sect. 9 of Ord. No. 687-08 — rehabilitate Broadway Avenue (I-77 to the east
corporation line) — grant (O 1053-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2098
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
E. of Warner Rd., & S. of Tioga Ave. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission —
Service Department (O 1057-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2100

Ward 3
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Dawson, Jr., Benjamin C. — condolence(R 1694-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
E.104th St., — intent to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service Department
(R 1352-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2090
Phillips, Rev. Aaron L. — recognition (R 1706-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2062
Union Ave., 12408 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1148-09 — liquor permit
(R 1618-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2093

Ward 4
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061

Ward 5
Amend Sect. 9 of Ord. No. 687-08 — rehabilitate Broadway Avenue (I-77 to the east
corporation line) — grant (O 1053-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2098
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Cedar Ave., 7002 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1129-09 — liquor permit
(R 1612-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2091
East 33rd St., — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service Department
(O 1374-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2105
East 59th St. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service
Department (R 1413-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2091

2124

November 18, 2009

The City Record

67

East 61 St. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service Department
(R 1414-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2091
East 71st Street — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service Department
(O 1055-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2099
East 93rd St., 3363 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1133-09 — liquor permit
(R 1613-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2091
Woodland Ave., 5611 — withdraw objection to transfer of Liquor License — repeal Res.
1283-09 — liquor permit (R 1614-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2092

Ward 6
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 1611-09 — Fairfax Computer Learning Program —
agreement — Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. (Ward 06 NCF)
(O 1679-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2072
Baldwin Road S.E. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service Department
(O 1054-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2098
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Fairfax Computer Learning Program — agreement — Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp.
(Ward 06 NCF) (O 1611-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2112
Health Promotion and Socialization Program — social support services for seniors — Senior
Outreach Services, Inc., (O 1610-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2111
Quincy Ave. & Quebec Ave. — PPN 121-17-028 / 136 — Land Reutilization Program — Board of
County Commissioners (O 1424-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2107
Woodland Ave. (north) & E. 81St., (West & East) — vacate a portion — City Planning
Commission — Service Department (O 1058-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2100

Ward 7
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
East 65th St. — PPN 106-12-015 / 016 / 017 / 045 / 046 — Land Reutilization Program —
Artist Duncan & Phyllis Duncan (O 1423-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2106
Euclid Ave., 2300 (Rooms 100, 101 & patio) — objection to transfer of Liquor License(
liquor permit (R 1615-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2092
Euclid Ave., 2300 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res. 1615-09 —
liquor permit (R 1684-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2073
Linwood Ave. — PPN 106-12-022/ 023/ 024 — Land Reutilization Program — Tyrone McCoy
& Quintina McCoy (O 1515-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2109

Ward 8
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061

Ward 9
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061

Ward 10
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061

Ward 11
32nd degree Masons of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, Valley of Cleveland —
recognition (R 1705-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2062
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Cuyahoga County Soldiers’ & Sailors’ Monument — Monumental Access Day — recognition
(R 1704-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2062
East 156th St., 383 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1140-09 — liquor permit
(R 1686-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2074
East 185th St., 910 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1685-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2074
St. Clair Ave., 18506 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1143-09 — liquor permit
(R 1687-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2074
Young, Brandon — condolence (R 1696-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061

2125

The City Record

68

November 18, 2009

Ward 12
Amend Sect. 9 of Ord. No. 687-08 — rehabilitate Broadway Avenue (I-77 to the east
corporation line) — grant (O 1053-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2098
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Linton Avenue S.E. — intent to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service
Department (R 1059-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2091
Villa Storefront Expansion Program — agreement — Slavic Village Development (Ward 12 NCF)
(O 1608-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2111

Ward 13
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Cuyahoga County Soldiers’ & Sailors’ Monument — Monumental Access Day — recognition
(R 1704-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2062
East 49th St., 1390 — encroach into right-of-way — entrance canopy & two support posts —
Ohio Technical College — Service Department (O 1052-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2098
East 53rd St. — encroach into right-of-way — parking area — Lakeside Commerce, LLC —
Service Department (O 1051-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2097
Live-Work Overlay zoning district — E.34th St., E. 36th St. and St. Clair Ave. (O 1418-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
Lorain Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — bus shelter — David H. Ellison — Service Dept.
(O 1250-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2103
Patton, John T. — condolence (R 1697-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Simms St. (N.W.) , Sanders Ct., (N.W.) , Kramer Ct. (N.W.) — vacate a portion — City
Planning Commission — Service Department (O 1373-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2105
Stanard Ave. — PPN 104-11-074 — Land Reutilization Program — Cuy. Co. Board of
Developmental Disabilities (O 1391-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2106
Sweet, David C. — appreciation (R 1707-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2062
West 27th Place — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service Department
(O 1056-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2099

Ward 14
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Northern Ohio Blanket Mills — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission
(O 1599-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2110

Ward 15
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061

Ward 16
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Ridge Rd., 3837 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 1617-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2092
West 52nd Pl. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service Department
(O 1375-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2105

Ward 17
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Community Development — Grant easement to Vine Court Properties LLC, on Detroit Ave.
(O 1665-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2068
Detroit Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — two bus shelters — Detroit Shoreway Com. Dev.
Organization — Service Dept. (O 1251-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2103
Franklin Ave. — PPN 002-21-010 — Land Reutilization Program — Amtrust Bank
(O 1561-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2110
Madison Ave., 8309 (1st. & 2nd fl.) — withdraw objection to renewal — liquor permit
(R 1690-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2075
West 54th St., 3260 — PPN 016-10-082 — Land Reutilization Program — Joseph Maximovich &
Emeric Maximovich (O 1266-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2104

Ward 18
Clifton Blvd., 10427 — transfer of location application — liquor permit (F 1692-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061

2126

November 18, 2009

The City Record

69

Ward 19
Amend Sect(s) 1,2,3,4,5 & 6 of Ord. No. 556-09 — Bellaire Rd. (between Hirst Avenue and
West 130th St) — change the zoning — City Planning Commission
(O 1069-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2100
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061

Ward 20
Cleveland Culinary Celebration Week & The Fabulous Food Show — recognition
(R 1703-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2062
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Copeland, Michael A. — congratulations (R 1700-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Lorain Ave., 13712 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 1154-09 — liquor permit
(R 1619-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2093
Magnificat Cross Country Team — congratulations (R 1699-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
R.J. Boland’s Restaurant & American Saloon — recognition (R 1702-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2062
Soltesz, Alexandra Ella — congratulations (R 1698-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
South West Citizens Area Council — congratulations (R 1701-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061

Ward 21
Burks, Gussie — condolence (R 1695-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2061
Lorain Ave., 14910 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1173-09 — liquor permit
(R 1616-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2092
Rocky River Dr., (between Woodbury Ave. and Puritas Ave) — change the zoning — City
Planning Commission (O 413-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2093

Water Division
Amend title & Sect(s) 1& 2 of Ord. No. 1260-06 — Human Resource Enhancement Program
(Phase II and Phase III) — professional consultants (O 1661-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2066

Western Reserve Area Agency on Aging
Western Reserve Area Agency on Aging Program, 2010 — Grants (O 1388-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2106

Zoning
Amend Sect(s) 1,2,3,4,5 & 6 of Ord. No. 556-09 — Bellaire Rd. (between Hirst Avenue and
West 130th St) — City Planning Commission (Ward 19) (O 1069-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2100
Live-Work Overlay zoning district — E.34th St., E. 36th St. and St. Clair Ave.
(O 1418-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2089
Rocky River Dr., (between Woodbury Ave. and Puritas Ave) — City Planning Commission
(Ward 21) (O 413-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2093

2127

70

The City Record

PPPP

November 18, 2009

