The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

January the Fourteenth, Two Thousand and Four

Jane L. Campbell
Mayor

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Containing

PAGE

President of Council

Valarie J. McCall
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Michael C. O’Malley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
9
9
10
10
11
11
11
11
16
20
20

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Frank G. Jackson
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ...................................................4691 East 177th Street
Robert J. White ..................................................3760 East 126th Street
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson..................................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt........................................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis.........................................................7416 Star Avenue
Sabra Pierce Scott ..............................................9212 Kempton Avenue
Kevin Conwell ......................................................774 East 131st Street
Roosevelt Coats.....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka .................................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman....................................................3053 West 12th Street
Nelson Cintron, Jr. ....................................................3004 Vega Avenue
Merle R. Gordon .................................................1700 Denison Avenue
Michael C. O’Malley ..........................................6710 Brookside Drive
Matthew Zone......................................................1228 West 69th Street
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
Dona Brady...........................................................3466 Bosworth Road
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ...............................................16519 West Park Road
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Valarie J. McCall, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Jane L. Campbell
Debra M. Janik, Chief of Staff
David M. McGuirk, Executive Assistant
Timothy Mueller, Executive Assistant
Craig Tame, Executive Assistant
––––––––––––, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
Margreat A. Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison
Erik Janas, Inter-Governmental Affairs Officer
Lorna Wisham, Chief Public Affairs Officer

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44108
44112
44119
44105
44113
44113
44109
44144
44102
44102
44111
44111
44111

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Linda M. Hudecek, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – James G. Williams, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Gina Routen, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Steven Sims, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane E. Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Kenya Taylor, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Director; Mayor Jane
L. Campbell, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L.
Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry, Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline
Hardaway, Janet Jankura, Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J.
Livingstone, Margot James Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Jonalyn M. Krupka, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
William Morrison.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Jane L. Campbell, President; Council President Frank
G. Jackson; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Robert H. Baker, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Margreat Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Christopher Carmody,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F. Denk,
Chairman; James Williams, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E.
P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Subodh Chandra, President;
Finance Director Robert H. Baker, Secretary; Council President Frank G. Jackson.

DEPT. OF LAW – Subodh Chandra, Director, Galen L. Schuerlein, Acting Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100

BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto; Law Director
Subodh Chandra; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.

DEPT. OF FINANCE – Robert H. Baker, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Alan Schneider, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – James S. Higgins, Commissioner, 1404 East 9th Street
Purchases and Supplies – Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue

BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Subodh Chandra; Utilities
Director Michael G. Konicek; Council President Frank G. Jackson.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael G. Konicek, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – John C. Mok, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Weibusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matthew Carroll,Acting Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Commissioner
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Environment – Willie Bess, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Dr. Wendy Johnson, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – James A. Draper, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Edward F. Lohn, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Natalie A. Ronayne, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Christopher S. Ronayne, Director;
Anthony J. Coyne, Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke, Lawrence A. Lumpkin,
Gloria Jean Pinkney, Rev. Sam Edward Small, Councilman Joseph Cimperman.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela Caldwell,
Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb,Council Member
Nelson Cintron, Ed Romero.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia
Nolan, David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton, Council Member Merle
Gordon.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Cindy Barber, Vice Chair; Michael Doud,
Doris Honsa, Richard Lenard.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Subodh Chandra; Chairman; Finance
Director Robert H. Baker; Council President Frank G. Jackson; Councilman Dona Brady;
Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman; Donald
Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond Ossovicki, Chief Electrical
Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman; Earl S. Bumgarner,
Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, Lawrence Skule, Chief Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V.
Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Paul Volpe, Chair; Ted Sande,
Vice Chair; James Gibans, India Pierce Lee, Robert Madison, Randall B. Shorr, Chris
Ronayne, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Council Member Joe Cimperman, Dwayne J. Simpson; Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
Judge Emanuella Groves
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
Judge Mary Eileen Kilbane
Judge Anita Laster Mays
Judge Lauren C. Moore
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
Judge Angela R. Stokes
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
Judge Joseph J. Zone

Courtroom
14B
15A
13A
14D
13D
14C
12C
12B
13B
15C
12A
14A
13C

Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Michael E. Flanagan – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak – Bailiff;
Regina Daniel – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 2004

Vol. 91

No. 4701

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2004
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

COMMUNICATIONS

10:00 A.M.—Aviation & Transportation Committee: Westbrook, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice Chairman; Britt,
Dolan, Gordon, Reed, Rybka.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Reed, Chairman; Britt, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Coats,
Conwell, Jones, White, Zone.

File No. 2094-03-B.
From the Department of Law —
Chief Assistant Director of Law for
the Real Estate and Development
Section — Playhouse Theatre District Assessment Notice reviewed
and approved. Received.

VALARIE J. McCALL

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Coats, Chairman; O’Malley,
Vice
Chairman;
Brady,
Cintron,
Jones, Polensek, Sweeney, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chairman, Rybka,
Vice
Chairman,
Conwell,
Lewis,
O’Malley, Scott, Westbrook.

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2002-2005
MONDAY
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Johnson,
Chairman; White, Vice Chairman;
Cimperman, Dolan, Jones, Rybka,
Sweeney.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Sweeney, Chairman; Jones,
Vice Chairman; Brady, Cimperman,
Johnson, O’Malley, Polensek, White,
Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee: Lewis, Chairman; Conwell, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Johnson,
Reed, Polensek.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Jackson, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Britt, Coats, Gordon, O’Malley, Reed, Scott, Westbrook, White.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Cimperman, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Jones,
Lewis, Reed, Scott, Zone.
TUESDAY—Alternating
1:00
vices
Zone,
well,

P.M. — Health & Human SerCommittee: Britt, Chairman;
Vice Chairman; Cintron, ConGordon, Scott, Polensek.

1:30 P.M. — Legislation Committee:
White, Chairman; Scott, Vice Chairman; Dolan, Gordon, Johnson, Rybka, Westbrook.

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chairman:
Rules Committee: Jackson, Chairman;
O’Malley,
Reed,
Sweeney,
Westbrook.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Scott.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats,
Chairman;
Cintron,
Reed,
Pierce Scott, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, January 12, 2004
The meeting of the Council was
called
to
order,
The
President,
Frank G. Jackson, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Britt,
Cimperman, Cintron, Coats, Conwell,
Dolan,
Gordon,
Johnson,
Lewis,
O’Malley, Pierce Scott, Polensek,
Reed, Rybka, Sweeney, Westbrook,
White and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Campbell, Chief of Staff Janik and Directors
Baker,
Konicek,
Ricchiuto,
Hudecek, Williams, Routen, Fumich,
Taylor, Johnson, and C. Ronayne,
and Margreat Jackson, Legislative
Affairs Liaison
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
prayer was offered by Elder Sandra
Thomas of Pentacostal Church of
Christ, located at 10515 Chester
Avenue in Ward 6. Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Britt, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Gordon.

33

File No. 75-04.
From the Office of Equal Opportunity — Certified MBEs and FBEs
— Reporting Period: Fourth Quarter, 2003. Received.
File No. 76-04.
From the Office of Equal Opportunity — MBE/FBE Deletions from
OEO’s Database — Fourth Quarter,
2003. Received.
File No. 77-04.
From the Office of Equal Opportunity — Denials of Certification —
Fourth Quarter, 2003. Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 78-04.
Re: New Application — 3471700 —
H. M. Goldi, Inc., d.b.a. Food Plus
All, 18506 St. Clair Avenue. (Ward
11). Received.
File No. 79-04.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 6277273 — NKJ Enterprises
LLC, d.b.a. Clark Store 1184, 10606 Bellaire Road. (Ward 19). Received.
File No. 80-04.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — Aysha, Inc., d.b.a. Woodside Food Mart, 12713-17 Woodside
Avenue, first floor and basement.
(Ward 9). Received.
File No. 81-04.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 9116662 —
2976, Inc., 2976 East 116th Street.
(Ward 4). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 82-04 — Mary Looney
Tubbs.
Res. No. 83-04—Tom Barensfeld.
Res. No. 84-04—Joseph S. Kreinberg.
Res. No. 85-04—Harry Kushner.
Res. No. 86-04—Walter W. Hahn.
Res. No. 87-04 — Deacon John A.
Golding.

The City Record

4
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 88-04—Roldo Bartimole.
Res. No. 89-04—George F. Dixon
III.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 90-04—Anthony Jones.
Res. No. 91-04—April Baer.
Res. No. 92-04—Grace Gallucci.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 63-04.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1682-03,
passed September 22, 2003, relating
to the purchase or lease with an
option to purchase for a period of
three, four, or five years, by one or
more contracts for one Group VI
high-speed, production printer/duplicator
system,
including
maintenance, for the Division of Printing
and Reproduction, Department of
Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1682-03, passed September
22, 2003, is amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the purchase or lease with an option to purchase, for a period of three, four, or
five years, each or all of the following items: one Group VI highspeed, production printer/duplicator
system, including maintenance to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis, for the Division of Printing
and Reproduction, Department of
Finance.
That under Section 108(b) of the
Charter, the purchases or leases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Law may sign all documents with the State of Ohio or any
of its political subdivisions that are
necessary to make the purchases or
leases, and may enter into contract
or contracts with the vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 1682-03, passed September 22, 2003, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance
Law; Committee on Finance.

Ord. No. 64-04.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to
the Ohio Department of Transportation to upgrade and interconnect
traffic signals at three intersections
located in the Cities of Cleveland
and Shaker Heights.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be
in the public interest that consent of
the City of Cleveland is given to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio (the “Director of
Transportation”) to make the following
improvements
under
the
plans, specifications and estimates
approved by the Director of Transportation: to upgrade and interconnect the traffic signals at the intersections of Lee Road and Scottsdale
Boulevard; Van Aken Boulevard and
South Woodland Road; and North
Moreland, Kemper Road, and Larchmere Boulevard, located both in the
Cities of Cleveland and Shaker
Heights (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City gives its
consent to the Improvement and its
administration by the Director of
Transportation, provided that this
ordinance shall not be construed to
impose any financial obligation on
the City for the Improvement. However, the City agrees to assume and
contribute 100% of the cost of any
item, included in the construction
contracts at the request of the City,
which are determined by the Director of Transportation to be ineligible or unnecessary for the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into agreements with the Director of
Transportation necessary to complete the planning and construction
of the Improvement.
Section 4. That on completion of
the Improvement, the City will
maintain the rights-of-way and keep
them free of obstructions in a manner satisfactory to the Director of
Transportation and hold the rightsof-way inviolate for public highway
purposes
and
permit
no
signs,
posters, billboards, roadside stands
or other private installations within
the limits of the rights-of-way.
Section 5. (a) That all existing
streets
and
public
rights-of-way
within the City necessary for the
Improvement shall be made available for the Improvement.
(b) That the City agrees that all
rights-of-way required for the Improvement will be acquired and/or
made available under current State
and Federal regulations. The City
also understands that right-of-way
costs include eligible utility costs.
(c) That the installation of all
utility facilities on the rights-of-way
shall conform with the requirements
of Title 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT
Utilities Manual.
Section 6. That this Council requests the State to proceed with the
Improvement.

34

January 14, 2004
Section 7. That the City agrees to
allow the City of Shaker Heights to
act as contractual agent for the
Improvement.
Section 8. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to transmit to the
Director of Transportation three (3)
certified copies of this ordinance
immediately on taking effect, and it
shall become the basis for proceeding with the Improvement.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 65-04.
By Council Member Dolan.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies, in conjunction with
the Director of Community Development, to invite bids for the sale of
the City owned parking lot located
at the northwest corner of West
168th Street and Albers Avenue and
authorizing the sale of such land as
it is no longer needed for public use.
Whereas, the City-owned property
located at the northwest corner of
West 168th Street and Albers Avenue is no longer needed for public
use; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 2250-03,
passed December 15, 2003, changed
the zoning of property located at the
northwest corner of West 168th
Street and Albers Avenue from a
Local Retail Use District to a Parking District; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies, in conjunction with the Director of Community
Development,
is
hereby
authorized to invite bids for the sale
of the City-owned parking lot located at the northwest corner of West
168th Street and Albers Avenue.
Section 2. That the invitation for
such bid shall require compliance
with all applicable zoning laws,
shall require the successful bidder
to continue to operate the property
as a parking lot, and shall indicate
that the deed shall contain a deed
restriction requiring the use of the
property as a parking lot.
Section 3. That the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies and the
Director of Community Development
are authorized to reject any and all
bids that may be received.
Section 4. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that the following described
property is no longer needed for
public use:

January 14, 2004
(Legal description to be inserted)
Section 5. That the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies and the
Director of Community Development
are hereby authorized to sell the
above-described property to the lowest and best bidder at the fair market value as determined by the bids
received in response to the invitation to bid.
Section 6. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed to be
prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland.
The deed
shall contains provisions, including
such restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be necessary, including the operation of the
land as a parking lot, to protect the
public interest.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 66-04.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to apply for and accept
grants from the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development for the CDBG Year 30
under the Title I of the Housing and
Community
Development
Act
of
1974, for the 2004 Federal HOME
Grant Program, Emergency Shelter
Program, and the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to apply for and accept grants
from the U. S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
in
the
following
approximate
amounts: $29,532,000 to conduct the
Year 30 Community Development
Block Grant Program: $7,073,000 to
conduct the Federal HOME Grant
Program; $1,067,000 to conduct the
Emergency Shelter Grant Program;
and $866,000 for the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS
(HOPWA) Program, for the purposes set forth in the budgets and
according thereto and in compliance
with the requirements of Title I of
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 and applicable
rules and regulations. That the
Director of Community Development
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grants,
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes set forth in the budgets for the grants.

The City Record
Section 2. That the budgets for the
grants, placed in File No. 66-04-A,
made a part hereof as if fully
rewritten herein, are approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 67-04.
By Council Members Jones, Gordon, Sweeney, Coats, Cimperman and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of grading and
paving, constructing streets, sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbing,
curb ramps, median strips, intersections, utility boxes, casting adjustments, appurtenances, streetscaping,
landscaping, installing water and
sewer mains and connections, installing electrical service and connections, streetlighting, and other
related infrastructure improvements
in conjunction with the East 176th
Street new housing development project; and authorizing the Directors
of Community Development, Public
Service or Public Utilities to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement of grading and
paving, constructing streets, sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbing,
curb ramps, median strips, intersections, utility boxes, casting adjustments, appurtenances, streetscaping,
landscaping, installing water and
sewer mains and connections, installing electrical service and connections, streetlighting, and other
related infrastructure improvements
in conjunction with the East 176th
Street new housing development project, for the Departments of Community Development, Public Service
or Public Utilities, by one or more
contracts duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Directors of
Community Development, Public Service or Public Utilities are each
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts for the making of the public improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the improvement, provided, however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or

35

5
components may be the subject of a
separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 363, 20
SF 372, 20 SF 379, and 20 SF 393,
Request No. 125754.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Public Service,
Public Utilities, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, Public Service, Public Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 68-04.
By Council Member Dolan.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the continuation of City-provided group health and life insurance
coverage, under the terms and conditions currently in effect, and further authorizing a continuation of
military leave with pay to all City
employees who would otherwise lose
such benefits as a result of a call
to active military duty in connection
with the terrorists acts that occurred in New York City and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001.
Whereas, City employees have
been, or may soon be called to
active military service pursuant to
an order by the President of the
United States in connection with the
terrorists acts in New York City and
Washington, D.C. on September 11,
2001; and
Whereas, the City provides military leave with pay in accordance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City and the respective collective
bargaining agreements and management compensation plans when
an employee is called to active military duty at the direction of the
President or the Governor; and
Whereas, it is the belief of this
Council that the possible discontinuation of City-provided group health
and life insurance and the limitation
on military leave with pay could
cause economic and procedural hardships for affected employees and
their families; and
Whereas, Council desires to support and assist those City employees
who have been called to active military duty and their families who
have been financially burdened by
the employees’ call to active military duty; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 2035-01,
passed December 10, 2001, provided
additional military leave benefits to
employees called to active military
duty in connection with the terrorist acts in New York City and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 2260-02,
passed November 18, 2002, extend
the time period for such additional
military leave benefits to December
19, 2002; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 2188-02,
passed December 16, 2002, extended
the time period for such additional
military leave benefits to December
20, 2003; and

6
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
all employees of the City who are
in the reserve military forces of the
United States and who are now serving or may in the future serve as a
part of the active military forces of
the United States in connection with
the terrorist acts that occurred in
New York City and Washington,
D.C. on September 11, 2001, shall be
paid by the City throughout such
employee’s active military service in
connection with the terrorists acts
that occurred in New York City and
Washington, D.C. on September 11,
2001 the difference in money between the employee’s military pay
so long as the employee’s military
pay is less than the employee’s City
pay for the same time period.
Section 2. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the group health and life insurance
benefits currently provided to all
City employees pursuant to the Codified Ordinances and the City’s collective bargaining agreements, shall
remain in full force and effect for
those City employees otherwise eligible for such benefits, who are in
the reserve military leave forces of
the United States and who are now
serving or may in the future serve
as part of the active military forces
of the United States in connection
with the terrorist acts that occurred
in New York City and Washington,
D.C. on September 11, 2001.
Section 3. That, the benefits of
Section 1 and Section 2 of this ordinance, shall continue for the duration of such employees’ active military service in connection with the
terrorists acts that occurred in New
York City and Washington, D.C. on
September 11, 2001, beginning on
December 20, 2003.
Section 4. That, the benefits of
Section 1 and Section 2 of this ordinance, shall continue for the duration of such employees’ active military service in connection with the
terrorists acts that occurred in New
York City and Washington, D.C. on
September 11, 2001, but in no event
shall such benefits continue beyond
December 31, 2004.
Section 5. That, to continue the
group health insurance benefits in
full force and effect, the employee
shall be responsible for paying any
contributions to the health care premium that the employee is required
to pay as an employee.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Personnel
and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Committees on Employment,
Affirmative Action, and Training,
Finance.

The City Record
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 71-04.
By Council Member Johnson (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate the remaining portion of Woodhill Court
S.E.
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Woodhill Court S.E., as
hereinafter described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate a portion of
the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and being known as all that
portion of:
WOODHILL COURT S.E. (10.00
feet wide) extending Easterly from
the Easterly line of Ambler Street
S.E. (width varies) to the Westerly
line of Woodhill Road S.E. (80.00
feet wide).
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 69-04.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and approving one or more contracts with Schirmer Construction
Company for the emergency rehabilitation, renovation, reconstruction, or
otherwise improvement of portions of
the facility located at 205 St. Clair
Avenue for the purpose of constructing a data center, emergency operations command center, and program
spaces for the use of the City of
Cleveland and, for a short term, the
Greater Cleveland Sports Commission;
authorizing the purchase or lease by
one or more requirement contracts of
computer hardware, software, associated peripherals, including maintenance, fixtures, furniture, moving services, equipment, supplies, services,
and other necessary items which may
be needed to effect the improvement
and for the public improvement
authorized by Ordinance No. 2144-03,
passed January 5, 2004, for the
Department of Public Service and the
Director of Finance; and to amend the
title, and Sections, 1, 2, 3, and 4 of
Ordinance No. 1213-02, passed June 10,
2002, relating to the public improvement of renovating space to relocate
City Council Archives.

36

January 14, 2004
Whereas, the City is hosting the
2004 International Children’s Games
this August; and
Whereas, within the last month, it
was determined that it is necessary
to
establish
a
command
center
beginning in April to ensure the
smooth operation and security of the
International Children’s Games; and
Whereas, to facilitate coordination
with the City’s emergency command
operations, it is beneficial to locate
the headquarters and command center for the 2004 International Children’s Games within portions of the
City facility located at 205 St. Clair
Avenue; and
Whereas, on January 5, 2004, this
Council passed Ordinance No. 214403, which authorized, among other
things, the public improvement of
the entire facility located at 205 St.
Clair Avenue; and
Whereas, because of the urgent
nature of ensuring that the pertinent portions of the 205 St. Clair
Avenue facility are ready for operation for the International Children’s Games, this Council finds
that, based on considerations of its
experience and expertise in construction of complex data centers
with high-technology components,
proposed cost, quality, personnel
availability, safety, security and
project delivery date, Schirmer Construction Company is uniquely situated as the best firm to provide the
labor and materials necessary for
the rehabilitation, renovation, reconstruction, or otherwise improvement
of portions of the facility in order
to house a data center, an emergency operations command center,
and other program spaces in the
short time necessary for the International Children’s Games; and
Whereas, this Council finds that
the Schirmer Construction Company
is specifically capable of performing
this work and is also capable of
starting and completing the improvement within the short time
necessary to be operational for the
International Children’s Games; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council authorizes and approves one or more contracts with Schirmer Construction
Company, in an approximate total
sum of $ 2,750,000, for the public
improvement of the emergency rehabilitation,
renovation,
reconstruction, or otherwise improvement of
portions of the facility located at
205 St. Clair Avenue for the purpose
of constructing a data center, emergency operations command center,
and related program spaces for the
use of the City of Cleveland, which
improvement includes but is not limited to repairing the roof, and
improvements to the 1st floor lobby
and the 4th and 5th floors of the
facility located at 205 St. Clair
Avenue.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements, for
a period not to exceed two years, of
the necessary items of computer

January 14, 2004
hardware, software, and associated
peripherals, including installation,
maintenance,
fixtures,
furniture,
moving services, equipment, supplies, services, and other necessary
items which may be needed to effect
the public improvement to 205 St.
Clair Avenue authorized by this
ordinance and Ordinance No. 2144-03,
passed January 5, 2004.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
a period not to exceed two years for
the lease for a period not to exceed
five years, of computer hardware,
associated peripherals, fixtures, furniture,
equipment,
supplies,
and
other necessary items which may be
needed to effect the public improvement to 205 St. Clair Avenue authorized by this ordinance and Ordinance No. 2144-03, passed January 5,
2004.
Section 4. That either the Director
of Public Service or the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with computer software developers or vendors to
acquire one or more licenses necessary to effect the public improvement to 205 St. Clair Avenue authorized by this ordinance and Ordinance No. 2144-03, passed January 5,
2004, for software, including implementation and training, and for
maintenance and technical support
services for a period of two years,
with three options exercisable by
the contracting Director, to renew
for additional one-year terms, and
cancelable on thirty days’ written
notice by the relevant Director.
The selection of the computer software developers or vendors for the
licenses or services shall be made
by the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Service or the Director of Finance from
lists of qualified computer software
developers or vendors available for
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Service or the
Director of Finance for the purpose
of compiling the lists. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director of Public Service or the Director
of Finance, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 5. That the purchases,
acquisitions, leases, and procurements authorized by this ordinance
shall be made by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Department of Finance
and/or the Department of Public
Service. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period or
periods less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 6. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
payable from Fund Nos. 11 SF 006,
20 SF 191, 20 SF 300, 20 SF 310, 20

The City Record
SF 320, 20 SF 340, 20 SF 351, 20 SF
371, 20 SF 391, and from the fund or
funds authorized in Ordinance No.
2144-03, passed January 5, 2004, and
may also be charged against the
proper appropriation accounts, and
the Director of Finance shall certify the amount of the initial purchase, acquisition, lease or procurement, which together with all later
purchases or procurements, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies under a
requisition against the contract or
contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 112522)
Section 7. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases, acquisitions, or leases authorized
by this ordinance may be made
through
cooperative
agreements
using state procedures. The Director
of Public Service or the Director of
Finance may sign all documents
with the State of Ohio or any of its
political subdivisions that are necessary to make the purchases, acquisitions, or leases, and may enter into
one or more contracts with the vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 8. That the title, and Sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of Ordinance No.
1213-02, passed June 10, 2002, are
amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of renovating
space in the 205 St. Clair Avenue
building to relocate City Council
Archives; authorizing the Director
of Public Service to enter into one
or more contracts for the making of
the improvement; authorizing the
director to employ one or more professional consultants to design the
improvement; and authorizing the
purchase by one or more contracts
of furniture, supplies, equipment
and moving services necessary to
implement the improvement.
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is determined to
make the public improvement of renovating space in the 205 St. Clair
Avenue building to relocate City
Council Archives, for the Department of Public Service, by contract
or contracts duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding for a gross
price for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts for the
making of the above public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders after competitive
bidding for a gross price for the
improvement provided however, that
each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement may be treated as a separate
improvement, and each, or any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract for a gross price.
Upon request of the director the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule of unit prices, including profit
and overhead, for all items constituting units of the improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to
employ by one or more contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several depart-

37

7
ments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to design the public
improvement authorized above.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Public Service from a list of qualified consultants available for the employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Service for the purpose
of compiling the list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director of Public Service, and certified
by the Director of Finance.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to make
one or more written contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
each or all of the following items:
furniture, supplies, equipment and
moving services necessary to implement the improvement, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Department of Public Service.
Section 9. That the existing title,
and Sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of Ordinance No. 1213-02, passed June 10,
2002, are repealed.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 70-04.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease with I-X Center
Corporation for the erection, maintenance, and operation of an electrical information and advertising
sign to be located at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a Lease with I-X Center Corporation (“Lessee”) for the erection, maintenance, and operation of
an
electrical
information
and
advertising sign at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, which
will
generally
be
located
on
approximately 3,539 square feet of
land adjacent to and west of Ohio
Route 237 and south of Key Corp’s

8
hangar building (same as existing
sign). The term of the Lease,
unless sooner terminated or cancelled, shall expire January 13,
2014 or co-terminus with the City’s
lease with the I-X Center Corporation for the I-X Center, whichever
is later. The Lease shall be subject
to cancellation by the Director of
Port Control on six months written
notice should the leased premises
be or become needed for aviation
purposes or should Lessee’s sign be
or become in non-compliance with
any city, state, or federal regulation.
Section 2. That the sign shall not
be fabricated or installed until the
design of the sign has been reviewed and approved by the City
Planning Commission.
Section 3. That the rent for the
leased premises shall be Four Hundred Dollars ($400.00) per month.
Section 4. That the Lease authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall contain additional terms and conditions as the
Director deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 74-04.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 4 of Ordinance No. 2306-03,
passed December 15, 2003, relating
to a storage facility at 2580 East
93rd Street.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 4 of Ordinance No. 2306-03, passed December
15, 2003, is hereby amended to read
as follows:
Section 4. That all acquisition
costs shall be paid from Fund No. 20
SF 392 or 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That existing Section 4
of Ordinance No. 2306-03, passed
December 15, 2003, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 72-04.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution expressing this Council’s support for the
ongoing cooperative efforts between
Cuyahoga
County
Metropolitan
Housing Authority, the Cleveland
Municipal School District, and the
residents of the Tremont community in establishing a plan that will
enable students who are relocated
from Valleyview Estate to complete
the 2003-2004 school year in the
school that they currently attend.
Whereas, Cuyahoga County Metropolitan
Housing
Authority
(“CMHA”) is seeking Federal Hope
VI funds for the reconstruction of
Valleyview Estate; and
Whereas, if Federal Hope VI
funds are not awarded, CMHA has
committed to using CMHA capital
funds for the reconstruction of Valleyview Estate; and
Whereas, the first group of families to relocate from Valleyview
Estate will begin moving in January of 2004; and
Whereas, because the relocation
will occur during the school year,
parents of school age children are
concerned about the educational
obstacles
their
children
may
encounter
during
the
relocation
process; and
Whereas,
parents
of
Tremont
School students, members and leaders of the Tremont Community, and
staff of CMHA encourage the Cleveland Municipal School District to
develop a plan that would enable
students to complete the 2003-2004
school year in the school that they
currently attend; and
Whereas, a plan of this nature
will prevent students from changing
schools mid-year; and
Whereas, changing schools midyear can be a disruptive and difficult experience for students and
adversely affect the quality of education for these students; and
Whereas, the Cleveland Municipal
School District has expressed a willingness to develop a plan that
would enable students who reside at
Valleyview Estate to complete the
2003-2004 school year in the school
that they are currently attend; and
Whereas, this Council appreciates
the Cleveland Municipal School District’s cooperation on this issue; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
expresses its support for the ongoing
cooperative
efforts
between
Cuyahoga
County
Metropolitan
Housing Authority, the Cleveland
Municipal School District, and the
residents of the Tremont community in establishing a plan that will
enable students who are relocated
from Valleyview Estate to complete
the 2003-2004 school year in the
school that they currently attend.

38

January 14, 2004
Section 2. That this Council is
appreciative of the efforts of the
Cuyahoga
County
Metropolitan
Housing Authority, the Cleveland
Municipal School District, and the
residents of the Tremont community in working to ensure the uninterrupted education of students who
are relocated as part of the Valleyview Estate reconstruction.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority Board of Commissioners and the
Chief Executive Officer of the Cleveland Municipal School District.
Section 4. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 73-04.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at 14510 Kinsman and
repealing
Resolution
No.
843-03,
objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C2 Liquor Permit to 14510
Kinsman Road by Resolution No.
843-03 adopted by the Council on
May 12, 2003; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C2 Liquor Permit to 14510, Inc., DBA
Kinsman Sunoco, 14510 Kinsman
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent Number 6549670, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 843-03, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record

January 14, 2004
LAID ON THE TABLE
Ord. No. 997-03.
By Council Members Coats, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide for the design
of installing secondary station rechlorination facilities at various
locations within the distribution system; determining the method of
making the public improvement of
installing the facilities; and authorizing the director to enter into one
or more public improvement contracts
for
the
making
of
the
improvement.
Without objection, Ordinance No.
997-03 was relieved of further consideration of all committees and laid
on the table pursuant to the Rules
of Council.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Ordinance No. 997-03 was
laid on the table.
Council Member Jones entered the
meeting.
MOTION
By Council Member Britt, seconded by Council Member Gordon and
unanimously
carried
that
the
absences of Council Member Dona
Brady be and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:51 p.m. to meet on Monday, January 26, 2004, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

January 7, 2004
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, January 7,
2004, at 10:30 a.m. with Mayor Campbell presiding.
Present: Mayor Campbell, Directors Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Mok,
Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Director

Pettus, Directors Hudecek, Routen,
Sims, Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Absent: Director Ronayne.
Others: Deborah Midgett, Acting
Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies.
Donna Felder, Acting Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 1-04.
By Director Mok.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the
bid of Siemens Airfield Solutions,
Items 1a through 2v, items 3, 4, and
item 8 for labor and materials necessary to provide electrical parts
and equipment to maintain, repair
and modify existing airfield, parking and terminal lighting systems,
Phase II, for the various divisions
of the Department of Port Control,
for a period not to exceed two
years beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
the 25th of September, 2003, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1015-03, passed on June 10, 2003,
which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to Thirty-Six
Thousand
Four
Hundred
Sixty-Two
and
81/100
Dollars
($36,462.81), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Port Control is hereby requested to enter
into a requirement contract for
such labor and materials necessary,
which shall provide for the immediate
purchase
as
the
initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 146007
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of ThirtySix Thousand Four Hundred SixtyTwo and 81/100 Dollars ($36,462,81).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such labor
and materials, whether more or less
than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Director Pettus,
Directors
Hudecek,
Routen,
Sims, Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Ronayne.
Resolution No. 2-04.
By Director Draper.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of G.T. Electric, Inc. for replacement
of emergency generator at First
District Police Headquarters for the
Department of Public Safety, for the
period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on October 1, 2003
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 374-03, passed by Cleveland City Council on May 12, 2003,

39

9
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to FortyTwo Thousand Five Hundred Fifty
and 00/100 Dollars ($42,550.00), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Safety is hereby
requested to enter into contract for
such items.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Director Pettus,
Directors
Hudecek,
Routen,
Sims, Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Ronayne.
Resolution No. 3-04.
By Director Draper.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Fire Force, Inc. for an estimated
quantity of labor and materials necessary to repair, maintain and service MSA breathing apparatus, Item
Nos. 1-11, 13-37, 39-60, 62-76, 78-79, 8182, 84-87, 89-92, 94-147, 149, 151-177,
179-194, for the Division of Fire,
Department of Public Safety, for the
period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on October 15, 2003
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1225-03, passed by Cleveland City Council on August 13,
2003, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
Eighty-Seven Thousand Eight Hundred Sixty-Eight and 52/100 Dollars
($87,868.52), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Safety is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:
Requisition No. 133728
as specified,
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Ten Thousand
and 00/100 Dollars ($10,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Director Pettus,
Directors
Hudecek,
Routen,
Sims, Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Ronayne.
Resolution No. 4-04.
By Director Draper.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Gene Ptacek & Sons Fire Equipment Co., Inc. for an estimated quantity of labor and materials necessary to repair, maintain and service
MSA breathing apparatus, Item Nos.

10
12, 38, 61, 77, 80, 83, 88, 93, 148, 150
and 178, for the Division of Fire,
Department of Public Safety, for the
period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on October 15, 2003
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1225-03, passed by Cleveland City Council on August 13,
2003, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
Two Thousand One Hundred FortyTwo and 10/100 Dollars ($2,142.10),
is hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Safety is hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 133727
as specified,
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Two
Thousand One Hundred Forty-Two
and 10/100 Dollars ($2,142.10).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Director Pettus,
Directors
Hudecek,
Routen,
Sims, Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Ronayne.
Resolution No. 5-04.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that pursuant to Ordinance No. 214403 passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland on January 5, 2004, the
firm of HWH Architects Engineers
Planners, Inc., is hereby selected
upon the nomination of the Director
of Public Service from a list of qualified
firms
available
for
such
employment and determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Service as the
firm of architects (“Architect”) to be
employed by contract for the purpose of supplementing the regularly
employed staff of the Division of
Architecture in order to provide the
professional services necessary for
building improvements for the 205
St. Clair new data center.
Be it further resolved, that the
Director of Public Service hereby is
authorized to enter into a written
contract with HWH Architects Engineers Planners, Inc., based upon its
proposal dated, January 6, 2004,
which contract shall be prepared by
the Director of Law and shall
include such additional provisions
as he deems necessary to benefit
and protect the public interest.

The City Record
The fees for services to be performed under the contract authorized hereby shall not exceed Two
Hundred Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($200,000.00). Reimbursable expenses shall not exceed Twenty
Five Thousand and no/100 Dollars
($25,000.00). The total compensation to the Architect shall not
exceed Two Hundred Twenty Five
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($225,000.00).
Be it further resolved, that the
employment of the following subconsultants
by
HWH
Architects
Engineers Planners, Inc., is hereby
approved:
ABR Consulting Group
$55,000 (24%)
Sandhu Associates
(MBE) $10,000 (4.44%)
Rosstech/KDJ Group, LLC
(MBE) $20,000 (8.88%)
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Director Pettus,
Directors
Hudecek,
Routen,
Sims, Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Ronayne.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

40

January 14, 2004
SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2004
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 03-343: 2202 Superior
Avenue (Ward 13)
Renee and Brian Heller, owners,
appeal to change to a live-work use
the
third
floor
of
an
existing
approximate 99' x 155' four-story
masonry building, situated on a 100'
x 175' parcel located in a SemiIndustry District on the south side
of Superior Avenue at 2202 Superior
Avenue; the partial change of use
being contrary to Section 355.04 of
the Area Requirements where the
maximum gross floor area permitted
is 8,750 s/f and 70,000 s/f is proposed
and contrary to the Yards and
Courts Regulations there is no rear
yard proposed where a 20' rear yard
is required as stated in Section
357.08(b)(2) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 03-344: 885 East 146th
Street (Ward 10)
The Cleveland Municipal School
District, owner c/o David Dickenson, agent, appeals to construct a
255'
x
365'
two-story
elementary/middle school building, situated on an acreage parcel located in
a Two-Family District on the east
side of East 146th Street at 885 East
146th Street; contrary to Sections
337.02(f)(3)A and 337.03(b), where
in a Two-Family District, a school
requires the Board of Zoning Appeals approval and subject to the
Off-Street
Parking
and
Loading
Requirements, 63 parking spaces are
provided where 90 parking spaces
are required as calculated under the
provisions of Section 349.04(c) of the
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 03-345: 9730 Denison
Avenue (Ward 18)
Angel and Norma Dones, owners,
appeal to change a store and two
dwelling units to a church and two
dwelling units in a 40' x 85' twostory frame, mixed use building situated on a 37' x 126' corner lot
located in a Local Retail Business
District on the northeast corner of
West
98th
Street
and
Denison
Avenue; contrary to Section 349.04 of
the Off-Street Parking and Loading
Requirements, where one parking
space is required per six seats and
a total of eleven parking spaces are
required with five spaces credited,
leaving a balance of six parking
spaces needed and not shown on the
plan; and contrary to the provisions
for Landscaping and Screening, no
landscape strips are shown where a
6' wide landscape frontage strip is
required to screen the parking from
the street and an 8' landscape transition strip is required to separate
the use from the Residential District
to the rear as stated in Sections

The City Record

January 14, 2004
Ordi-

addition to a one family dwelling in
a Two-Family District.

Calendar No. 03-346: 1194 East 79th
Street (Ward 7)
The Shiloh Temple House of God,
owner c/o Bishop Steven Best,
appeal to construct a 114' x 120'
parking lot in a General Retail
Business District on the northeast
corner of East 79th Street and Donald Avenue; the proposed parking
lot to provide accessory parking for
a new church on the northwest corner of East 79th Street and Donald
Avenue, for which the Board of
Zoning Appeals granted a variance
in Calendar No. 03-232; the parking
lot construction being contrary to
the Business Districts Regulations,
where two driveways are proposed
and there may be no more than one
driveway on a lot that has less
than a 150' frontage as stated in
Section 343.18(a) of the Codified
Ordinances.

Calendar No. 03-337: 3503 West 99th
Street
Nabil Shehada appealed to enclose
two existing front porches of a two
family dwelling in a Two-Family
District.

352.08-352.11
nances.

of

the

Codified

Calendar No. 03-348: Appeal of Abdisalam Abdi Hack License Suspension
Abdisalam Abdi appeals under
Chapter 76-6 of the Charter of the
City
of
Cleveland
and
Section
443.36 of the Codified Ordinances
from the suspension of a City of
Cleveland Hack License scheduled
to begin December 30, 2003 and continuing through January 6, 2004
issued by Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner
of
Assessments
and
Licenses.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2004
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, January
12, 2004, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 03-336: 2820 Community College Avenue
Arbor Park Place LLP appealed to
redevelop and do new construction
for a shopping plaza in a Local
Retail Business District.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 03-333: 3580-82 West
135th Street
Brian
Heidleman
appealed
to
enclose the 6' x 24' existing front
porches of a two-family dwelling
house in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 03-335: 5516 Stickney
Avenue
Dorothy Newton appealed to construct a 5' x 12' one-story kitchen

The following appeals were Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 03-334: 11409 Orville
Avenue
Cleyon
Davidson
appealed
to
enclose an existing 21' x 6' front
porch of a one family dwelling in a
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 03-272: 1584 East 82nd
Street
Gregory Neal appealed to enclose
an existing 12' x 25' front porch of
a one family dwelling in a MultiFamily District.
The following appeal was Postponed:
Calendar No. 03-330: 1082-98 East
105th Street postponed to February 2, 2004.
On Monday, January 12, 2004, in
Executive Session:
The
following
appeals
were
heard by the Board on Monday,
January 5, 2004, and said decisions
were approved and adopted in
Executive Session on Monday, January 12, 2004:

11
missed by the Board for failure of
the
appellants
to
provide
the
Board with the requested information to support the granting of a
variance:
Calendar No. 03-108: 2906 Fulton
Road
Louis Burgos appealed to construct a 2-story bakery, restaurant
and office.
Calendar No. 03-236: 3149 West 82nd
Street
Vilmarie Aponte appealed to install a 4' high fence 2' from the
neighbor’s house.
Calendar No. 03-241: 3905 East 140th
Street
Sharon Pentecostal Church appealed to construct a 1-story church
building.
Calendar No. 03-243: 11602 Union
Avenue
Cleophus Smith, Jr. appealed to
use a service station as a thrift
store.
Calendar No. 03-247: 5410 Stickney
Avenue
Jon Periandri II appealed to erect
a 1-story garage and 6' high privacy fence.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 03-328: 670 Lakeview
Road
Letitia M. Nall appealed to change
to an office and business use a 2
1/2-story former nursing home building in a Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 03-329: 1948 Rookwood
Road
Richard Felder appealed to erect
an 8' x 14' sunroom addition to an
existing garage at the rear of a single family dwelling in a One-Family District.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 03-331: 2117 Fulton
Road
Maria Lyle appealed to install
an 8' x 19.5' concrete pad for
parking in the front yard of a twostory dwelling in a Two-Family
District.
Calendar No. 03-332: 9405-07 Adams
Avenue
Joann Howard appealed to establish use as a day care a two family dwelling house in a Two-Family
District.
In Executive Session on January
5, 2004, the following appeals that
had been held pending were dis-

41

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks

The City Record

12
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required
in
Advertisement
for
Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised, the following notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code,
each
prime
bidder,
each
minority business enterprise (“MBE”)
and each female business enterprise (“FBE”) must be certified
before doing business with the
City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing to receive credit for
using an MBE or FBE should
ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or FBE status
compliance with the Code, affirmative action in employment and, if
applicable, joint venture status, are
submitted to the Office of Equal
Opportunity (“OEO”) prior to the
date of bid opening or submission
of proposals or as specified by the
Director. Failure to comply with
the business enterprise code or
with representations made on these
forms may result in cancellation of
the contract or other civil or criminal penalties.”

tated, for the Division of Engineering & Construction, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2329-03
pending.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT
OF FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2004
AT
11:00
A.M.,
CITY
HALL,
ROOM 518, 601 LAKESIDE AVE.,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2004

Wireless Voice and Data Services,
for the Division of Information
Technology and Services, Department of Finance, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 2224-03 amending
Ordinance No. 1714-02, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, September 16, 2002.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING, THURSDAY,
JANUARY 15, 2004 AT 1:30 P.M.,
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY &
SERVICES CONFERENCE ROOM,
1404 E. 9TH ST., CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.

Group IV/High Volume Copiers, for
the Division of Printing & Reproduction, Department of Finance,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
885-03, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, June 2,
2003.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2004
AT 2:30 P.M., CITY HALL, 601
LAKESIDE AVENUE, CONFERENCE ROOM 514, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
Group V/Copier Maintenance, for
the Division of Printing & Reproduction, Department of Finance,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
886-03, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, June 2,
2003.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2004
AT 3:00 P.M., CITY HALL, 601
LAKESIDE AVENUE, CONFERENCE ROOM 514, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.

January 7, 2004 and January 14, 2004
FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2004
Contract 1: Repairing and Construction Curb Ramps including
Casting Adjustments and Appurtenances for Street Resurfaced,
Reconstructed and/or Rehabili-

January 14, 2004
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2004
Labor & Materials Necessary to
Maintain, Repair, Replace and
Test
Motor
Control
Centers,
Including Switchgear, Controls,
and Appurtenances, for the Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 2355-01, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, February 11, 2002.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2004
AT 1:00 P.M., CROWN WATER
TREATMENT
PLANT,
955
CLAGUE RD., WESTLAKE, OHIO
44145.

January 7, 2004 and January 14, 2004
January 7, 2004 and January 14, 2004
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2004
THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2004
External Explosive Containment
Trash Receptacles, for Various
Divisions, Department of Port
Control, authorized by Ordinance
No. 1597-02, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, August
14, 2002.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2004
AT 10:00 A.M., CLEVELAND HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S CENTRAL RECEIVING
BUILDING, 19451 FIVE POINTS
ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.

Traffic Paint and Glass Beads, for
the Division of Traffic Engineering, Department of Public
Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 371-03, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
March 24, 2003.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2004
AT 10:00 A.M., CITY HALL, 601
LAKESIDE AVENUE, ROOM 518,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Miscellaneous-Sized Steel Plates,
for Various Divisions, Department of Finance, as authorized
by Ordinance No. 2021-03, passed
by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, November 10, 2003.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2004 AT
1:00 P.M., CITY HALL, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
ROOM
104,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

January 14, 2004 and January 21, 2004
FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2004

Work Uniforms, for Various Divisions, Department of Port Control, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1688-03, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, October
13, 2003.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2004
AT 10:00 A.M., CLEVELAND HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S CENTRAL RECEIVING
BUILDING, 19451 FIVE POINTS
ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.

Contact 2: Repairing and Construction Curb Ramps Including Casting Adjustments and Appurtenances for Street Resurfaced,
Reconstructed and/or Rehabilitated, for the Division of Engineering & Construction, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2329-03
pending.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT
OF FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2004
AT
11:00
A.M.,
CITY
HALL,
ROOM 518, 601 LAKESIDE AVE.,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

January 7, 2004 and January 14, 2004

January 14, 2004 and January 21, 2004

January 7, 2004 and January 14, 2004
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2004

42

The City Record

January 14, 2004

13

Certified MBEs and FBE
Reporting Period: Fourth Quarter, 2003
Pursuant to Chapter 187 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, Ohio, listed below are the firms that have
been certified as Minority Business Enterprises (MBEs) and Female Business Enterprises (FBEs) by the Mayor’s Office
of Equal Opportunity during the Fourth Quarter of 2003.
Company

MBE/FBE

Certdate

A.M.E. Metals, Inc.

MBE 11/20/2003

Aamco Transmissions

FBE 10/22/2003

Abele Davis Corp.
Aberdeen Mechanical, Inc.
Acosta Landscaping
Advanced Federated Protection

FBE 10/22/2003
FBE 10/13/2003
MBE 12/9/2003
MBE 11/10/2003

AGS Architects
Alpha & Omega Landscape & Snowplow, Inc.

MBE 12/2/2003
FBE 11/27/2003

Alpha Builders, Inc.

MBE 11/25/2003

Ames Street Ltd.

MBE

10/6/2003

Aries Distribution

FBE

11/7/2003

ASC Group, Inc.

FBE

11/7/2003

Ballast Construction dba Ballast Fence
Bay-West Electric Co., Inc.
Best Builders

FBE 11/15/2003
FBE 10/24/2003
MBE 12/15/2003

Brown, Flynn Communications, Ltd.

FBE 12/13/2003

Burgan’s Cleaning Service
Byron D. Myers, Architect
C.E.A.K. Interiors

MBE 12/26/2003
MBE 12/23/2003
MBE 11/17/2003

C.J. Industrial Supply, Inc.

FBE 11/11/2003

Centralian Consulting Services

MBE/FBE

12/2/2003

Chaves & Associates

FBE 10/22/2003

Clark Enterprises, Inc.
Class Construction, Inc.

MBE 10/22/2003
FBE 12/17/2003

Classic Teleproductions, Inc.

FBE 11/11/2003

Cleveland City Blue Print Co., LLC

FBE

11/7/2003

Cogen Construction

MBE

10/7/2003

Coleman Development, Inc.

MBE 12/10/2003

C-One-O Construction

MBE 10/22/2003

Corporate Choice Staffing Services, Inc.

MBE/FBE 12/30/2003

Creative Works, Inc.

FBE 11/13/2003

Customized Solutions, Inc.

FBE 12/19/2003

Dan Platt Draperies, Inc.

FBE 12/27/2003

DAR Public Relations, Inc.

MBE/FBE 11/13/2003

DDC+, Inc.
Dentz Painting, Inc.
Dobb, Inc.
Dunlop Industries, Inc.
Eagle Fabricators & Erectors, Inc.

MBE
FBE
MBE
FBE
FBE

11/11/2003
12/9/2003
11/18/2003
12/21/2003
11/17/2003

EdArch Associates

MBE

10/1/2003

43

Description

Manufacturer & fabricator of machinery,
equipment, parts; bushings, bearing, fittings,
etc., industrial and commercial
Repair transmissions & drivelie (ales, cv boots,
mounts, etc.) including 4wds, clutches, transfer
cases for domestic & foreign cars, light trucks,
vans for both automatic & standard shift vehicles
Law enforcement supplies
HVAC and mechanical contractor
Landscaping services
Installation of alarm & fire systems; closed
circuit TV, card access, sprinkler systems
Architectural services
Complete landscape services, site work including
backhoe work
General contractor specializing in renovation,
remodeling, carpentry and painting
General contractor on commercial and residential
rehab; acquisitions and property development
Distributor: janitorial supplies including paper
products
Cultural resource surveys including archaeology &
architectural history; also, ecological and wetland
surveys, site assessment screening
Fencing contractor
Electrical contractor
General contractor specializing in carpentry and
masonry
Strategic marketing communications specializing
in community relations management
Janitorial services
Architectural services
General contractor specializing installation of
drywall and plastering
Industrial supplies: i.e., hardware, fasteners,
tools, pipe and fittings, garden, plumbing, etc.
Organizational planning, training services,
internet/intranet services
Document control management, contract
administration, administrative and secretarial
functions
Contractor specializing in HVAC
General contracting specializing in rehab, painting
and carpentry
Provides audio, video, advertising and marketing
services
Reprographic, blueprinting, copying, mounting and
lamination
General contractor specializing in carpentry and
drywall
Mechanical dismantling and interior wrecking
services
General contractor specializing in rehab,
residential & commercial
Office support staffing specializing in direct
hire; also, bi-lingual
Marketing consultant, including communications;
events planning & implementation
Computerized accounting software with support
services
Custom design window treatments, residential &
commercial
Public relations, marketing, communications,
media relations, advertising, training seminars,
special events management and promotions
Electrical contractor: commercial and industrial
Painting Contractor
Elderly and disabled transportation service
Steel erection
Furnish and erect structural & miscellaneous
fabricated steel
Construction consulting and management services

The City Record

14
Empigard Metal Finishing, Inc.

MBE

10/7/2003

Environmental Affairs Management Consultants MBE 11/25/2003

E-ProToCall Marketing Solutions

MBE/FBE 11/26/2003

Epstein Design Partners, Inc.
ETNA Parking

FBE 12/16/2003
MBE 11/10/2003

Ferrous Metal Transfer Co.

MBE 10/16/2003

Forbes Brick Company
FBE
Gayle’s Welding & Fabrication Company
MBE
GDB’s Greenscaping
MBE
Hom-Med, Inc.
MBE
HWH, LLC
MBE/FBE

12/9/2003
10/31/2003
12/24/2003
11/19/2003
10/14/2003

Institute of Technology Consulting, Inc., The

FBE 12/18/2003

Integrated Business Supplies, Inc.

FBE 10/14/2003

Interconnect Cabling Network Services, Inc.

FBE

10/3/2003

Italia Plumbing, Inc.

FBE

11/8/2003

J.B. Neal Associates

MBE/FBE 10/22/2003

Janitorial Services, Inc.

MBE 10/16/2003

Jay’s Boom Trucking
Johmyell Contractors, Inc.
K.B. & F Trucking
Klean Sweep
L.M.R. Construction Co., Inc.
Lakco Construction

MBE
MBE/FBE
MBE
MBE
FBE
MBE

11/18/2003
12/22/2003
11/20/2003
10/7/2003
12/7/2003
10/16/2003

Lee Infrastructure Restoration, Inc.

MBE/FBE

12/7/2003

MBE

11/6/2003

MBE/FBE

10/9/2003

M. Rivera Construction

M2 International, Inc.

Master Builders Construction Co.

MBE 10/22/2003

MCM Company, Inc.

FBE 11/12/2003

Meroe Contracting & Supply Co.

MBE 10/20/2003

Micro Plus

MBE 12/11/2003

Ming’s Heating & Air Conditioning, Inc.

MBE 10/22/2003

Minority Electric Company
Montalvo, Inc.

MBE/FBE 10/23/2003
MBE 12/12/2003

Moss-Card Consulting, Inc,

MBE/FBE

12/9/2003

Nancy Devins Yetman, Inc., d.b.a. Creative Cater
Nowak Mechanical Services, Inc.

FBE 12/19/2003
FBE 12/14/2003

Nurturing Restorations, Inc.
Office Imaging

FBE 12/11/2003
FBE 11/20/2003

44

January 14, 2004

Electroplating of steel parts; laminates for
windows for security protection, insulation,
ultraviolet radiation
Environmental consultants: EPA & OSHA
related, training of safety, facilities support
management, geotech, specialized training
programs
Marketing consultant including community
services, events & media planner, public relations,
public service and promotions
Graphic design
Provide exclusive right, privilege & obligation of
administrative, marketing and operational
services of garage parking and surface lots
Trucking: transfer of steel coils, sheets and
scrap steel
Brick, masonry, distributor; retail and wholesale
Certified welder and steel fabrication
Landscaper, snow removal and hauling of materials
Supplier of medical equipment and supplies
Management consulting firm special in marketing
and public relations services
Telecommunications consulting, management
education services, telephone courtesy courses,
long distance services
Computers: hardware, software & supplies,
office supplies and employment services
Installation of telecommunication networks:
LAN, WAN, WIN; design & consulting of
networks, supply network hardware
Plumbing contractor: supply, install, maintenance
repair; back flow inspections
Consultant: employee relations, workforce
education
Janitorial services: cleaning of walls, windows,
carpet, light fixtures; building maintenance
Boom trucking and material handling
General contractor
Dump trucking
Commercial cleaning services
Masonry contractor
General contractor specializing in carpentry and
architectural millwork
Infrastructure rehab including manholes, storage
tanks, flooring, walls, highways; materials for
casting, rings, risers
General contractor specializing in concrete work,
pipe insulation and carpentry, interior demolition
and construction clean-up & iron work
Construction management services: project
administration/management; project control;
quality management; contract administration;
value
General contractor specializing in rehab,
residential & commercial; HVAC & Plumbing
General contractor, constructment management,
project management services
Field painting of steel, system OZEU, conduits,
buildings and bridges; general contractors
specializing in concrete, highway & bridge work,
underground utility work and engineering
Supplier: computer hardware, software, &
peripherals (printers, modems, monitors,
diskettes)
General contractor specializing in rehab and
heating, ventilation and air conditioning
Electrical contractor
General contractor specializing in interior &
exterior improvements and renovations;
residential & commercial; supplier: plumbing,
mechanical, interior finishes, construction
materials
Information technologies in computer services
offering training, programming & software
development
Catering services
HVAC contractor including sprinkler & fire
protection, boilers, hydronics & temp controls,
service, install, repair
Ecosystems restoration consultant
Supplier of ink, toners and fax cartridges

The City Record

January 14, 2004
Ohio Diversified Services

FBE 10/20/2003

Outside In, Inc., The

MBE

Pal Construction
Personalized Data Corporation

MBE 12/24/2003
MBE 10/13/2003

Phillip Q. Hatcher & Associates
Pneumatic Specialties, Inc.

MBE 10/3/2003
FBE 11/18/2003

Polytech, Inc.

MBE 10/10/2003

Post Painting, Inc.
Precision Engineering & Contracting, Inc.

FBE
MBE

11/7/2003
11/6/2003

MBE/FBE

12/9/2003

Prime Engineering & Architecture, Inc.

11/6/2003

Prime Services & Management Co., Inc.

MBE 11/10/2003

Pro Construction

MBE

Quality Ribbons and Supplies Co.

FBE 11/17/2003

Quick Employment

10/7/2003

MBE/FBE 11/12/2003

R. Heard Painting
Ralph C. Tyler, P.E.P.S., Ltd.

MBE
MBE

12/8/2003
12/2/2003

Ramsay Construction Corporation

MBE

10/7/2003

Relocation Specialists, Inc.

FBE 12/24/2003

Renco Printing, Inc.
Rockport Construction & Materials

FBE 10/22/2003
FBE 11/6/2003

Roger’s Towing, Inc.
September & Associates
Suburban Janitorial Service, Inc.
T & M’s Hauling and Moving

FBE 11/25/2003
FBE 12/24/2003
FBE 10/24/2003
MBE 10/3/2003

Teamor & Associates
Tesco Builders, Inc.
Texcel, Incorporated

MBE 12/10/2003
FBE 11/26/2003
MBE 12/10/2003

Thermo-Tec Insulation, Inc.
Thomas Bros. Landscaping, Inc.
Tiffany Electric & Supply Company
Tip Top Landscaping
Top Quality Cleaning
Tucker, Young, Jackson, Tull, Inc.

FBE
MBE
MBE/FBE
MBE
FBE
MBE

11/12/2003
11/6/2003
11/6/2003
12/23/2003
12/27/2003
10/20/2003

United Engineering Associates, LLC

MBE

10/7/2003

United Ready Mix
V & B Trucking & Construction Co.

MBE 11/28/2003
MBE 12/10/2003

Wester Communications Group
World Resource Recovery Systems, Inc.
Yoh-Ban Construction, Inc.

MBE/FBE 12/30/2003
MBE/FBE 12/15/2003
MBE 12/15/2003

45

15

General contractor: site work, flagging,
demolition, excavation, asphalt, concrete, steel
erection, landscaping, painting, carpentry,
construction management
Interior and exterior plantscaping. Landscape
architectural services: planning & urban design,
site, park, recreational and transportation design,
environmental designs and studies
Concrete, painting, carpentry, rehab
Computer design, consulting, data entry,
conversions, word processing, disaster recovery,
clerical
Landscape design, installation and maintenance
Air dryers, air compressors, fittings, tubing for
pressurization of cables within the
telecommunications industry
Engineering: mechanical, electrical, structural,
environmental, transportation and civil
engineering; consulting architectural, planning and
construction management
Commercial painting and wallcovering contractor
General contractor specializing in site work,
construction management, engineering services
Architectural & engineering services: civil,
structural, geotechnical, material testing and site
development
General contractor specializing in masonry,
concrete, utility work, excavation, HVAC and
plumbing
General highway construction, paving, rigid,
grading, site clearing, excavation, embankment,
pavement removal, drainage & structures
Office and computer supplies, equipment;
janitorial supplies
Employment services: skilled labor, general labor,
medical, office, etc.; pre-employment screening
Pointer: exterior and interior
Engineering: civil, electrical, mechanical, rail
transit, railroad, structural, transportation;
architectural design; surveying and project
management
General contractor specializing in rehab,
carpentry, painting, drywall, glass glazing, clean
up, and construction management
Office and industrial relocation, management
consulting
Commercial printing
General contractor specializing in rigid paving,
structural concrete, underground utility work;
recycled materials: sand, soil, etc.
Towing of automobiles and trucks
Commercial and residential real estate appraising
Janitorial and cleaning services
General contractor specializing in rehab, trucking
and hauling
Law firm
General contractor
Computer system integration and services
including consulting
Insulation contractor
Landscaping and snowplowing
Electrical contractor
Landscaping services
Janitorial services
Consulting Engineers/designers: highway,
electrical, mechanical, structural, civil,
environmental, waste and water treatment
Consulting engineering services and construction
management in the fields of building design &
bridge design and inspections
Manufacture and distribute ready mix concrete
General contractor specializing in asphalt
concrete driveways, dig footers & pour,
waterproof basements, excavation, install
sewers, downspouts & waterlines, backfilling;
trucking of material & debris
Public relations
Consolidated metal stream waste collector for
recycle purposes
General contractor specializing in drywall

The City Record

16
ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 12-04.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency resolution declaring Cleveland City Council’s support
of the proposal of Slavic Village
HDAP Homes to the Ohio Housing
Finance Agency for the use of Housing Development Assistance Program funds to develop affordable
for-sale housing units in the city of
Cleveland.
Whereas, each year the Ohio
Housing Finance Agency allocates
funding for affordable housing developments throughout Ohio using a
competitive proposal process; and
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland has recognized the
need to maintain affordable housing
in Cleveland’s neighborhoods; and
Whereas, Slavic Village HDAP
Homes is proposing to develop up to
eleven (11) new single-family homes
in the city of Cleveland; and
Whereas, one hundred percent
(100%) of these units will be sold
to and occupied by families with
incomes at or below eighty percent
(80%) of the area median income;
and
Whereas, the Slavic Village HDAP
Homes project will benefit the citizens of the City; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council of the
City of Cleveland supports the proposal
of
Slavic
Village
HDAP
Homes to provide affordable housing for the citizens of Cleveland
through the use of funding from the
Housing
Development
Assistance
Program
of
the
Ohio
Housing
Finance Agency.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby requested to transmit
a copy of this resolution to the
Executive
Director
of
Cleveland
Housing Network.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 5, 2004.
Effective January 7, 2004.

Res. No. 13-04.
By Council Members Jackson and
Britt.
An emergency resolution declaring the week of Dr. Martin Luther
King’s birthday, January 18th - January 25th, Voter Registration Week
in the City of Cleveland; encouraging unregistered citizens to register
to vote at one of the events being
conducted during Voter Registration
Week; and reminding citizens that
they may register to vote during
normal business hours at their nearest public library, motor vehicle
bureau, or the Cuyahoga County
Board of Elections.

Whereas, the right to vote enables
citizens to have a voice in their government as citizens choose the people who will serve in public office;
and
Whereas, Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr., one of the greatest leaders in
the history of the United States,
emphasized the importance of voting when he stated “Voting is the
foundation
stone
for
political
action. With it, [African Americans] can eventually vote out of
office public officials who bar the
doorway to decent housing, public
safety, jobs and decent integrated
education. It is now obvious that
the basic elements so vital to
[African-American]
advancement
can only be achieved by seeking
redress from government at local,
state, and federal levels. To do this
the vote is essential”; and
Whereas, quality housing, education, jobs, and public safety are
issues that are of basic concern to
all residents of Cleveland, regardless of race, color or nationality; and
Whereas, the right to vote and to
have one’s vote counted is the hallmark of any democratic society; and
Whereas, the right of all Americans to vote was won through
decades of struggle, including the
loss of many lives; and
Whereas, voting is a right that
belongs to all citizens of the state
of Ohio; and
Whereas, many persons who are
eligible to register to vote choose
not to; and
Whereas, many persons who are
registered do not exercise their
democratic right to vote; and
Whereas, a large scale voter registration and education effort in the
City of Cleveland can help increase
the number of people who exercise
their right to vote and thereby
strengthen their voices in government; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby declares the week of Dr. Martin
Luther King’s birthday, January
18th - January 25th, Voter Registration Week in the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That this Council hereby encourages unregistered citizens
to register at any of the events
being conducted in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King’s birthday.
Section 3. That this Council hereby reminds citizens that they may
register to vote during normal business hours at their nearest public
library, motor vehicle bureau, or the
Cuyahoga County Board of Elections.
Section 4. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 5, 2004.
Effective January 7, 2004.

46

January 14, 2004
Res. No. 14-04.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution supporting an investigation by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
and the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission into whether market
manipulation contributed to a 55%
surge in natural gas prices.
Whereas, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
have been asked to investigate
whether market manipulation contributed to a 55% surge in natural
gas prices; and
Whereas, given the amount of fuel
stowed in underground storage and
available to augment fresh supplies
from pipelines, there does not appear to be a reason for increases in
spot-market and future prices; and
Whereas, gas inventories for this
winter peaked at 3.187 trillion cubic
feet on November 7, 2003, up 2.9 percent from a year earlier; and
Whereas, gas inventories for this
winter are the third largest pre-winter stockpile on record according to
Energy Department figures; and
Whereas, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, temperatures in the
United States have been 9.5 percent
warmer than normal so far this
heating season; and
Whereas, this Council is concerned about the rising natural gas
prices as such prices make it
extremely challenging, if not impossible, for low income families and
senior citizens to heat their homes;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby supports an investigation by the
Commodity Future Trading Commission and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission into whether market manipulation contributed to a 55
percent surge in natural gas prices.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit a
copy of this resolution to Chairman
Newsome, Commodity Future Trading
Commission,
and
Chairman
Wood, Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 5, 2004.
Effective January 7, 2004.

Res. No. 15-04.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit at 7902-04 Central Avenue and repealing Resolution Nos. 1612-02 and 1288-03, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D5 Liquor Permit to 7902-04 Central Avenue by Resolution Nos. 1612-

January 14, 2004
02 and 1288-03 adopted by the Council on August 14, 2002 and July 16,
2003; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal
and
consents
to
said
renewal based upon and pursuant to
a cooperation agreement by and
through City Council Representative, Patricia J. Britt and Applicant,
Dionne Mae Thomas, DBA Josephine’s Lounge, 7902-04 Central Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number 8876756, a copy of
which is in the file for this address
with the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
Liquor Permit to Dionne Mae Thomas,
DBA Josephine’s Lounge, 7902-04 Central Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104,
Permanent Number 8876756 be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution Nos. 1612-02 and 1288-03,
containing such objection, be and the
same is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 5, 2004.
Effective January 7, 2004.

Res. No. 16-04.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of Liquor License
of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to
18318 Euclid Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a transfer of Liquor License of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit from Williams &
Williams Enterprises, Inc., 16420 Euclid Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permanent Number 9624545 to Williams &
Williams
Enterprises,
Inc.,
DBA
Chester Place, 18318 Euclid Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permanent
Number 96245450002; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department

The City Record
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a transfer
of Liquor License of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from Williams &
Williams
Enterprises,
Inc.,
16420
Euclid Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permanent Number 9624545 to Williams &
Williams
Enterprises,
Inc.,
DBA
Chester Place, 18318 Euclid Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permanent
Number 96245450002, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 5, 2004.
Effective January 7, 2004.

Res. No. 17-04.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at 3314 Broadview Road and
repealing Resolution No. 1312-03, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to 3314 Broadview Road by Resolution No. 1312-03 adopted by the
Council on July 16, 2003; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
by
and
through City Council Representative, Merle R. Gordon and Applicant
Robert W. Colson, Jr., Club 3C, DBA
Club 3C, 3314 Broadview Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 1577821, a copy of which is
in the file for this address with the
City Law Department; and

47

17
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to Club
3C, DBA Club 3C, 3314 Broadview
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent Number 1577821 be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1312-03, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 5, 2004.
Effective January 7, 2004.

Res. No. 18-04.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at 2317 Denison Avenue and
repealing Resolution No. 1317-03,
objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to 2317 Denison Avenue by Resolution No. 1317-03 adopted by the
Council on July 16, 2003; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
by
and
through City Council Representative, Merle R. Gordon and Applicant,
Janice A. Taylor, President, Denison
Executive Club, Inc., DBA Denison
Club, 2317 Denison Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent Number
2066426, a copy of which is in the
file for this address with the City
Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D2,
D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to
Denison Executive Club, Inc., DBA
Denison Club, 2317 Denison Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 2066426 be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1317-03, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 5, 2004.
Effective January 7, 2004.

18
Res. No. 19-04.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the stock
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit at 12916 Forest
Avenue and repealing Resolution
No. 1373-03, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the stock transfer of ownership of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 12916
Forest Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement by Resolution No. 1373-03
adopted by the Council on July 16,
2003; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
stock transfer of ownership of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to 12916 Forest Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement
be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1373-03,
containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 5, 2004.
Effective January 7, 2004.

Res. No. 20-04.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 3904
Martin Luther King Jr. Drive and
repealing Resolution No. 1687-02,
objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 3904
Martin Luther King Jr. Drive by
Resolution No. 1687-02 adopted by
the Council on August 14, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Pamela
Hubbard, DBA McClain’s Market II,
3904 Martin Luther King Jr. Drive,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 4034257-0005 be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1687-02, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency

The City Record
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 5, 2004.
Effective January 7, 2004.

Res. No. 21-04.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 12502
Kinsman Road and repealing Resolution No. 1684-02, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 12502
Kinsman Road by Resolution No.
1684-02 adopted by the Council on
August 14, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to 333 Elyria, Inc., DBA Kinsman Food Deal,
12502 Kinsman Road, Cleveland,
Ohio
44120,
Permanent
Number
8917069-0005 be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1684-02, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 5, 2004.
Effective January 7, 2004.

Ord. No. 2144-03.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating, renovating, reconstructing, or
otherwise improving the recently
purchased Department of Finance
facility; authorizing the Director of
Public Service to enter into one or
more public improvement contracts
for the making of the improvement;
and authorizing the Director to
employ one or more professional
consultants to implement the improvement; authorizing the Director
of Finance to enter into a lease
agreement with the Greater Cleveland Sports Commission to lease a
portion of 205 St. Clair Building to
be used as a joint operations center
headquarters for the International
Children’s Games for a period not to
exceed six months.

48

January 14, 2004
Whereas, The Greater Cleveland
Sports Commission has proposed to
lease the space in the 205 St. Clair
Building from the City to house its
Joint Operations Center, relative to
the International Children’s Games
from April 2, 2004 to August 31, 2004;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement of rehabilitating, renovating, reconstructing, or
otherwise improving the recently
purchased Department of Finance
facility (“Improvement”), located at
205 St. Clair Avenue and commonly
known as the 205 St. Clair Building,
for the Department of Public Service, by one or more contracts duly
let to the lowest responsible bidder
or bidders after competitive bidding
for a gross price for the Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts for the
making of the Improvement with
the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding for a
gross price for the Improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the Improvement may
be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
for a gross price. On request of the
Director the contractor shall furnish
a correct schedule of unit prices,
including profit and overhead, for
all items constituting units of the
Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services
necessary
to
design
the
Improvement.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Service from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Service for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract
or
contracts
authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Service, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 4. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Finance
is authorized to enter into a lease
with the Greater Cleveland Sports
Commission of approximately 15,000
square feet of space in the 205 St.

January 14, 2004
Clair Building, which is suitable for
operation as Joint Operations Center
headquarters for the International
Children’s Games.
Section 5. That the lease shall be
for a period not to exceed six
months.
Section 6. That the lease may
authorize
the
Greater
Cleveland
Sports Commission to make improvements to the leased premises
subject to the approval of appropriate City agencies and officials.
Section 7. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to accept, in
lieu of rent payments under the
lease, from the Greater Cleveland
Sports Commission and the International Children’s Games certain
equipment, fixtures, and furniture
used by the Greater Cleveland
Sports Commission in the Joint
Operations Center following completion of the International Children’s Games, and is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
equipment.
Section 8. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to accept, in
lieu of rent payments under the
lease, from the Greater Cleveland
Sports Commission and the International Children’s Games certain services rendered by the Greater Cleveland Sports Commission and the
International Children’s Games in
the function of the Joint Operations
Center
during
the
International
Children’s Games, and is authorized
to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive the
services.
Section 9. That, to the extent that
the value of the equipment, fixtures,
and furniture exceeds the fair market rent of the rented space in the
205 St. Clair Building, the Director
of Finance is authorized to accept
the additional equipment as a gift
and is authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary to receive the gift.
Section 10. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain additional terms and
conditions, as he deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 11. That the Director of
Finance and the Director of Law,
and other appropriate City officials,
are authorized to execute other documents and certificates, and take
other actions that may be necessary
or appropriate to effect the lease
and equipment donation authorized
by this ordinance.
Section 12 and Section 13. That the
cost of the contracts authorized
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF
183, 20 SF 191, 20 SF 300, 20 SF 310,
20 SF 320, 20 SF 331, 20 SF 340, 20
SF 351, 20 SF 362, 20 SF 371, 20 SF
381, 20 SF 391, 11 SF 006, and 01400100-693000, Request No. 115228.
That this ordinance is declared to
be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed January 5, 2004.
Effective January 7, 2004.

The City Record
Ord. No. 2152-03.
By Council Members Rybka, Johnson, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation, and Properties to accept a
donation of money, and the real
property and improvements known
as St. Michael Hospital in the City’s
Broadway neighborhood; authorizing the Director to enter into a lease
agreement with UHHS-Saint Michael
Hospital, Inc. (“UH”) to lease the
donated property to St. Michael for
a period not to exceed twelve
months; authorizing the Director to
apply for and accept grants and
gifts from public and private entities; authorizing the Director to
employ one or more professional
consultants to conduct a feasibility
study regarding the future use of
the donated property; determining
the method of making the public
improvement of rehabilitating, renovating, reconstructing, or otherwise
improving the donated property,
including but not limited to, environmental remediation, site improvements, and other improvements recommended by the feasibility study
and accepted by the Director; and
authorizing the Director to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement;
and
authorizing
a
donation agreement between the
City and St. Michael and University
Hospitals.
Whereas, UHHS-St. Michael Hospital, Inc. (St. Michael) and its parent company University Hospitals
Health System, Inc. (University Hospitals) has indicated a desire to
make a donation of $2,000,000 and
the real property and improvements
known as St. Michael Hospital,
located at 5163 Broadway Avenue,
valued at $5,141,700 by the Cuyahoga County Auditor as net taxable
value for a total donation value of
$7,141,700 and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Parks, Recreation,
and Properties (the “Director”) is
authorized to accept a donation from
St. Michael and University Hospitals
of the following described real property and improvements known as St.
Michael Hospital:
Parcel No. 1
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being Parcel “A” in
the Map of Consolidation for Primary Health Systems of Ohio, Limited
Partnership of part of Original 100
Acre Lots Nos. 320 and 324, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 271,
Page 90 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Parcel No. 2
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being Parcel “B” in
the Map of Consolidation for Primary Health Systems of Ohio, Limited
Partnership of part of Original 100
Acre Lots Nos. 320 and 324, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 271,
Page 90 of Cuyahoga County Map

49

19
Records, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Parcel No. 3
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being Parcel “D” in
the Map of Consolidation for Primary Health Systems of Ohio, Limited
Partnership of part of Original 100
Acre Lots Nos. 320 and 324, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 271,
Page 90 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Parcel No. 4
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being Parcel “E” in
the Map of Consolidation for Primary Health Systems of Ohio, Limited
Partnership of part of Original 100
Acre Lots Nos. 320 and 324, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 271,
Page 90 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Parcel No. 5
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and know as being part of Original
100 Acre Lot No. 320 and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of
Broadway S.E. at the most Northerly corner of premises conveyed by
Theophilus G. Clewell and wife to
Lorenz Sanda by deed dated June 5,
1890, and recorded in Volume 475,
Page
508
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
Thence South 52° West along the
Northerly line of said land deeded to
Lorenz Sanda 209 feet to the most
Westerly corner thereof;
Thence Northwesterly and parallel
with the centerline of Broadway S.E.
40 feet;
Thence Northeasterly and parallel
with said first described course 209
feet to the centerline of Broadway
S.E.;
Thence Southeasterly along the
centerline of Broadway S.E. 40 feet
to the place of beginning, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
located at 5163 Broadway Avenue,
valued at $5,141,700 by the Cuyahoga County Auditor as net taxable
value.
Section 2. That the Director is
authorized to enter into an agreement with UH containing the terms
of the donation; the agreement shall
be substantially in the form contained in File No. 2152-03-A. The
agreement shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall contain
any additional provisions that will
protect and benefit the City of
Cleveland.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director is authorized
to enter into a triple net lease with
UH for all of the donated property
commonly known as St. Michael
Hospital described above, for a period not to exceed twelve months at
a cost of $1.00 per month and other
valuable considerations.
Section 4. That the lease may
authorize UH to make improvements
to the leased premises at their cost
subject to the approval of appropriate City agencies and officials.

The City Record

20
Section 5. That the lease shall be
substantially in the form attached to
the donation agreement contained in
File No. 2152-03-A. The lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain any additional provisions that will protect and benefit
the City of Cleveland.
Section 6. That the Director is
authorized to accept as a gift, funds
in the amount of $2,000,000 from UH
for the purpose of funding costs
directly related to the donated property. The Director is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive these
funds; and that the funds are appropriated for the purposes identified
in this ordinance.
Section 7. That
the Director is
authorized to apply for and accept
grants and gifts from public and
private entities for the purpose of
paying any costs directly related to
the donated property. The Director
is further authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds
accepted under this ordinance and,
on acceptance of funds by the
Director, they shall be appropriated
for the purposes described in this
ordinance.
Section 8. That the Director is
authorized to employ by contract or
contracts one or more consultants
or one or more firms of consultants
for the purpose of supplementing
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to conduct a feasibility study regarding
the future use the donated property.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director from a list of
qualified consultants available for
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass
by the Director for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
and certified by the Director of
Finance.

Section 9. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement of rehabilitating, renovating, reconstructing, or
otherwise improving certain portions of the donated property, including but not limited to, environmental
remediation,
site
improvements,
and
other
improvements accepted by the Director,
and other portions of the donated
property as recommended by the
feasibility study and accepted by
the Director, by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding for a gross price
for the improvement.
Section 10. That the Director is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts for the making of the
public improvements with the lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding for a
gross price for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement may
be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
for a gross price. On request of the
Director the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule of unit
prices, including profit and overhead, for all items constituting
units of the improvement.
Section 11. That the cost of the
contracts authorized by this ordinance, all costs of acquisition of the
donated property, and all costs
directly related to the donated property shall be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited proceeds
of the grants and gifts accepted
under this ordinance, and from the
fund or funds appropriated for the
use of the various departments in
City government responsible for
managing the donated property.
Section 12. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and the Director of Law, and other
appropriate City officials, are authorized to execute other documents
and certificates, and take other
actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to effect the donations
and lease authorized by this ordi-

January 14, 2004
nance, and to employ and pay all
fees for title companies, surveys,
escrows, appraisers, environmental
audits, and all other costs necessary
to accept the property.
Section 13. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed January 5, 2004.
Effective January 5, 2004.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Monday, January 12, 2004
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present in
Finance: Jackson, Chair; Sweeney,
Vice Chair; Brady, Britt, Coats, Gordon, O’Malley, Reed, Pierce Scott,
Westbrook, White.
Tuesday, January 13, 2004
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development
Committee:
Present
in
CDED: Gordon, Chair; Cimperman,
Vice Chair; Coats, Jones, Lewis,
Reed, Pierce Scott, Zone. Authorized
Absence: Cintron.
Wednesday, January 14, 2004
1:30 p.m.
City Planning (Zoning) Committee: Present in Planning (Zoning):
Cimperman,
Chair;
Rybka,
Vice
Chair; O’Malley, Pierce Scott, Westbrook. Authorized Absence: Lewis,
Conwell.
2:00 p.m.
Public Safety Committee: Present
in Safety: Reed, Chair; Britt, Vice
Chair; Brady, Cimperman, Coats,
Conwell, Jones, White, Zone.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

AIDS
CDBG Year 30 under the Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 —
2004 Federal Home Grant Program — Emergency Shelter Program — Housing
Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — grants — U. S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development (O 66-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35

Benefits
Health and life insurance coverage — military leave with pay — continuation
(O 68-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35

50

January 14, 2004

The City Record

21

Board of Control — Architecture Division
Architectural services for 205 St. Clair data center — contract per Ord. 2144-03 to HWH
Architects Engineers Planners, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 5-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Board of Control — Fire Division
MSA breathing apparatus repair, maintenance and service — contract per Ord. 1225-03 to
Fire Force, Inc. — Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 3-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
MSA breathing apparatus repair, maintenance and service — contract per Ord. 1225-03 to
Gene Ptacek & Sons Fire Equipment Co., Inc. — Dept. of Public Safety
(BOC Res. 4-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Electrical parts and equipment to maintain, repair and modify airfield, parking
and terminal lighting systems, labor and materials for (Phase II) —
contract per Ord. 1015-03 to Siemens Airfield Solutions
(BOC Res. 1-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Architectural services for 205 St. Clair data center — contract per Ord. 2144-03 to HWH
Architects Engineers Planners, Inc. — Division of Architecture, Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 5-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Generator, emergency for First District Police Headquarters — contract per Ord. 374-03
to G.T. Electric, Inc. (BOC Res. 2-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
MSA breathing apparatus repair, maintenance and service — contract per Ord. 1225-03 to
Fire Force, Inc. — Division of Fire (BOC Res. 3-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
MSA breathing apparatus repair, maintenance and service — contract per Ord. 1225-03 to
Gene Ptacek & Sons Fire Equipment Co., Inc. — Division of Fire
(BOC Res. 4-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Architectural services for 205 St. Clair data center — contract per Ord. 2144-03 to HWH
Architects Engineers Planners, Inc. — Division of Architecture
(BOC Res. 5-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Electrical parts and equipment to maintain, repair and modify airfield, parking and
terminal lighting systems, labor and materials for (Phase II) — contract per Ord.
1015-03 to Siemens Airfield Solutions — Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 1-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
MSA breathing apparatus repair, maintenance and service — contract per Ord. 1225-03 to
Fire Force, Inc. — Division of Fire, Dept. of Public Safety
(BOC Res. 3-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
MSA breathing apparatus repair, maintenance and service — contract per Ord. 1225-03 to
Gene Ptacek & Sons Fire Equipment Co., Inc. — Division of Fire, Dept. of Public
Safety (BOC Res. 4-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39

Board of Control — Standard Purchase Contracts
Generator, emergency for First District Police Headquarters — contract per
Ord. 374-03 to G.T. Electric, Inc. — Dept. of Public Safety
(BOC Res. 2-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39

51

The City Record

22

January 14, 2004

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Adams Avenue, 9405-07, (Ward 8) – Joann Howard, owner — appeal denied and adopted
on 1/12/04 (Cal. 03-332) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Community College Avenue, 2820, (Ward 5) – Arbor Park Place LLP, owner c/o Russell
Berusch and Kevin Brown, agents — appeal heard on 1/12/04
(Cal. 03-336) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
East 105th Street, 1082-98, (Ward 8) – Maher J. Ali, owner — appeal postponed to 2/2/04
on 1/12/04 (Cal. 03-330) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
East 140th Street, 3905, (Ward 3) – Sharon Pentecostal Church, owner — appeal dismissed
on 1/5/04 (Cal. 03-241) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
East 82nd Street, 1584, (Ward 7) – Gregory Neal, owner appeal withdrawn 1/12/04
(Cal. 03-272) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Fulton Road, 2117, (Ward 14) – Maria Lyle, owner — appeal denied and adopted on 1/12/04
(Cal. 03-331) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Fulton Road, 2906, (Ward 14) – Luis Burgos, owner dba Caribe Bake Shop — appeal dismissed
on 1/5/04 (Cal. 03-108) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Lakeview Road, 670, (Ward 8) – Letitia M. Nall, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 1/12/04 (Cal. 03-328) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Orville Avenue, 11409, (Ward 9) – Cleyon Davidson, owner — appeal withdrawn on 1/12/04
(Cal. 03-334) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Rookwood Road, 1948, (Ward 10) – Richard Felder, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
1/12/04 (Cal. 03-329). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Stickney Avenue, 5410, (Ward 16) – Jon A. Periandri, II, owner — appeal dismissed
on 1/5/04 (Cal. 03-247) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Stickney Avenue, 5516, (Ward 16) – Dorothy Newton, owner — appeal heard on 1/12/04
(Cal. 03-335) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Union Avenue, 11602, (Ward 3) – Cleophus Smith, Jr., owner — appeal dismissed on 1/5/04
(Cal. 03-243) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
West 135th Street, 3580-82, (Ward 20) – Brian Heidleman, owner — appeal heard on 1/12/04
(Cal. 03-333) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
West 82nd Street, 3149, (Ward 17) – Vilmarie Aponte, owner — appeal dismissed on 1/5/04
(Cal. 03-236) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
West 99th Street, 3503, (Ward 18) – Nabil B. K. Shehada, owner — appeal heard on 1/12/04
(Cal. 03-337) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Abdi, Abdisalam – 1/26/04 (Cal. 03-348) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Denison Avenue, 9730, (Ward 18) – Angel and Norma Dones, owners — appeal to be heard on
1/26/04 (Cal. 03-345). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
East 146th Street, 885, (Ward 10) – The Cleveland Municipal School District, owner c/o
David Dickenson, agent — appeal to be heard on 1/26/04
(Cal. 03-344) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
East 79th Street, 1194, (Ward 7) – The Shiloh Temple House of God, owner c/o Bishop
Steven Best — appeal to be heard on 1/26/04 (Cal. 03-346). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Superior Avenue, 2202, (Ward 13) – Renee and Brian Heller, owners — appeal to be heard
on 1/26/04 (Cal. 03-343) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Buckeye Area Development Corporation
E. 93rd St., 2580 — storage facility — amend Ord. 2306-03 (O 74-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

City Council
St. Clair Ave., 205 — public improvement — Greater Cleveland Sports
Commission (International Children’s Games) — City Council Archives —
relocate (O 69-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36

52

January 14, 2004

The City Record

23

City of Cleveland Bids
Copiers, high volume (Group IV) — Department of Finance — per Ord. 885-03 — bid due
January 21, 2004 (advertised 1/7/2004 and 1/14/2004) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Copiers, maintenance (Group V) — Department of Finance — per Ord. 886-03 — bid due
January 21, 2004 (advertised 1/7/2004 and 1/14/2004) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Curb ramps, casting adjustments and appurtenance (Contract 1) — Department of Public
Service — Division of Engineering and Construction — per Ord. 2329-03 — bid due
January 23, 2004 (advertised 1/7/2004 and 1/14/2004) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Curb ramps repair and construction — Department of Public Service — Division
of Engineering and Construction — per Ord. 2329-03 — bid due January 30,
2004 (advertised 1/14/2004 and 1/21/2004) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Motor control centers, including switchgear, controls and appurtenances, labor and
materials — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 2355-01 —
bid due February 20, 2004(advertised 1/7/2004 and 1/14/2004) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Steel plates, miscellaneous-sized — Department of Finance — per Ord. 2021-03 — bid due
January 29, 2004(advertised 1/14/2004 and 1/21/2004) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Traffic paint and glass beads — Department of Public Service — Division of Traffic
Engineering — per Ord. 371-03 — bid due January 29, 2004
(advertised 1/14/2004 and 1/21/2004). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Trash receptacles, external explosive containment — Department of Port Control — per Ord.
1597-02 — bid due January 28, 2004 (advertised 1/7/2004 and 1/14/2004) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Uniforms, work — Department of Port Control — per Ord. 1688-03 — bid due February
4, 2004 (advertised 1/7/2004 and 1/14/2004) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Wireless voice and data services — Department of Finance — Division of Information
Technology and Services — per Ord. 1714-02, 2224-03 — bid due January 28,
2004 (advertised 1/7/2004 and 1/14/2004) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Electrical information and advertising sign — Lease — I-X Center Corporation
(O 70-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37

Cleveland Municipal School District
Valleyview Estate — students relocated — support efforts to allow students to complete
2003-2004 school year in school year they currently attend
(R 72-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Communications
Certified MBEs and FBEs — Reporting Period: Fourth Quarter, 2003
(F 75-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Denials of Certification — Fourth Quarter, 2003 (F 77-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
MBE/FBE Deletions from OEO’s Database — Fourth Quarter, 2003
(F 76-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Playhouse Theatre District Assessment Notice reviewed and approved
(F.2094-03-B) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Community Development
CDBG Year 30 under the Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 —
2004 Federal Home Grant Program — Emergency Shelter Program — Housing
Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — grants — U. S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development (O 66-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
E. 176th St. new housing development project — grading and paving, constructing streets,
sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbing curb ramps, median strips, intersections,
utility boxes, casting adjustments, appurtenances, streetscaping, landscaping,
installing water and sewer mains and connections (O 67-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
W. 168th St. & Albers Ave. northwest corner — sale City owned parking lot
(O 65-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34

53

The City Record

24

January 14, 2004

Condolences
Barensfeld, Tom (R 83-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Golding, Deacon John A. (R 87-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Hahn, Walter W. (R 86-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Kreinberg, Joseph S. (R 84-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Kushner, Harry (R 85-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Looney Tubbs, Mary (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Congratulations
Bartimole, Roldo (R 88-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Dixon, George F., III (R 89-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34

Contracts
St. Clair Ave., 205 — public improvement — Greater Cleveland Sports
Commission (International Children’s Games) — City Council Archives —
relocate (O 69-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36

Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority
Valleyview Estate — students relocated — support efforts to allow students to complete
2003-2004 school year in school year they currently attend
(R 72-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Female Business Enterprise
Certified MBEs and FBEs — Reporting Period: Fourth Quarter, 2003
(F 75-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Denials of Certification — Fourth Quarter, 2003 (F 77-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
MBE/FBE Deletions from OEO’s Database — Fourth Quarter, 2003
(F 76-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Finance Department
Finance Department facility — recently purchased — public improvement
(O 2144-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Group VI high-speed, production printer/duplicator system — purchase — amend Ord.
1682-03 (O 63-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
St. Clair Ave., 205 — public improvement — Greater Cleveland Sports
Commission (International Children’s Games) — City Council Archives —
relocate (O 69-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36

Grants
CDBG Year 30 under the Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 —
2004 Federal Home Grant Program — Emergency Shelter Program — Housing
Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — grants — U. S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development (O 66-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35

Housing
CDBG Year 30 under the Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 —
2004 Federal Home Grant Program — Emergency Shelter Program — Housing
Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — grants — U. S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development (O 66-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35

Insurance
Health and life insurance coverage — military leave with pay — continuation
(O 68-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35

54

January 14, 2004

The City Record

25

Law Department
Playhouse Theatre District Assessment Notice reviewed and approved
(F 2094-03-B). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Leases
Electrical information and advertising sign — Lease — I-X Center Corporation
(O 70-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37

Liquor Permits
Bellaire Rd., 10606 — transfer (Ward 19) (F 79-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Broadview Rd., 3314 — objection — withdraw (Ward 15) (R 17-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Central Ave., 7902-04 — objection — withdraw (Ward 6) (R 15-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Denison Ave., 2317 — objection — withdraw (Ward 15) (R 18-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
E. 116th St., 2976 — transfer (Ward 4) (F 81-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Euclid Ave., 18318 — transfer (Ward 10) (R 16-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Forest Ave., 12916 — objection — withdraw (Ward 4) (R 19-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Kinsman Ave., 14510 — objection — withdraw (Ward 3) (R 73-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Kinsman Rd., 12502 — objection — withdraw (Ward 3) (R 21-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Martin Luther King Jr. Dr., 3904 — objection — withdraw (Ward 3)
(R 20-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
St. Clair Ave., 18506 — new (Ward 11) (F 78-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Woodside Ave., 12713-17 — transfer (Ward 9) (F 80-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Minority Business Enterprises
Certified MBEs and FBEs — Reporting Period: Fourth Quarter, 2003
(F 75-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Denials of Certification — Fourth Quarter, 2003 (F 77-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
MBE/FBE Deletions from OEO’s Database — Fourth Quarter, 2003
(F 76-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Office of Equal Opportunity
Certified MBEs and FBEs — Reporting Period: Fourth Quarter, 2003
(F 75-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Denials of Certification — Fourth Quarter, 2003 (F 77-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
MBE/FBE Deletions from OEO’s Database — Fourth Quarter, 2003
(F 76-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
Traffic signals — upgrade and interconnect — three intersections — Cities of Cleveland
and Shaker Heights (O 64-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34

Ohio Housing Finance Agency
Slavic Village HDAP Homes — Housing Development Assistance Program funds — Council’s
support (R 12-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
E. 93rd St., 2580 — storage facility — amend Ord. 2306-03 (O 74-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
St. Michael Hospital — donation of the real property — improvements
(O.2152-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

Personnel Department
Health and life insurance coverage — military leave with pay — continuation
(O 68-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35

55

The City Record

26

January 14, 2004

Port Control Department
Electrical information and advertising sign — Lease — I-X Center Corporation
(O 70-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37

Printing and Reproduction Division
Group VI high-speed, production printer/duplicator system — purchase — amend Ord.
1682-03 (O 63-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34

Purchases and Supplies Division
W. 168th St. & Albers Ave. northwest corner — sale City owned parking lot
(O 65-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34

Recognition
Baer, April (R 91-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Gallucci, Grace (R 92-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Jones, Anthony (R 90-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Commodity Futures Trading Commission — Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
— investigation — 55% surge in natural gas prices (R 14-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Dr. Martin Luther King’s birthday — Voter Registration Week — declare
(R 13-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Slavic Village HDAP Homes — Housing Development Assistance Program funds — Council’s
support (R 12-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Valleyview Estate — students relocated — support efforts to allow students to complete
2003-2004 school year in school year they currently attend (R 72-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Service Department
E. 176th St. new housing development project — grading and paving, constructing streets,
sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbing curb ramps, median strips, intersections,
utility boxes, casting adjustments, appurtenances, streetscaping, landscaping,
installing water and sewer mains and connections, ins (O 67-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Finance Department facility — recently purchased — public improvement
(O 2144-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
St. Clair Ave., 205 — public improvement — Greater Cleveland Sports
Commission (International Children’s Games) — Public Service — Finance
— City Council Archives — relocate (O 69-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Traffic signals — upgrade and interconnect — three intersections — Cities of Cleveland
and Shaker Heights (O 64-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34

Street Vacation
Woodhill Court S.E. — intention to vacate (R 71-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36

Tabled Legislation
Secondary station re-chlorination facilities — design and install (O 997-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39-T

Utilities Department
E. 176th St. new housing development project — grading and paving, constructing streets,
sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbing curb ramps, median strips, intersections,
utility boxes, casting adjustments, appurtenances, streetscaping, landscaping,
installing water and sewer mains and connections (O 67-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Secondary station re-chlorination facilities — design and install
(O 997-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39-T

56

January 14, 2004

The City Record

27

Ward 01
E. 176th St. new housing development project — grading and paving, constructing
streets, sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbing curb ramps, median strips,
intersections, utility boxes, casting adjustments, appurtenances, streetscaping,
landscaping, installing water and sewer mains and connections
(O 67-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Looney Tubbs, Mary — condolence (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Ward 02
Looney Tubbs, Mary — condolence (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Ward 03
Dixon, George F., III — congratulation (R 89-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Kinsman Ave., 14510 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit
(R 73-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Kinsman Rd., 12502 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit
(R 21-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Looney Tubbs, Mary — condolence (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Martin Luther King Jr. Dr., 3904 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit
(R 20-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48

Ward 04
E. 116th St., 2976 — transfer — liquor permit (F 81-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
E. 93rd St., 2580 — storage facility — amend Ord. 2306-03
(O 74-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Forest Ave., 12916 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit
(R 19-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Looney Tubbs, Mary — condolence (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Woodhill Court S.E. — intention to vacate (R 71-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36

Ward 05
Looney Tubbs, Mary — condolence (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Slavic Village HDAP Homes — Housing Development Assistance Program funds — Council’s
support (R 12-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46

Ward 06
Central Ave., 7902-04 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit
(R 15-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Looney Tubbs, Mary — condolence (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Ward 07
Looney Tubbs, Mary — condolence (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Ward 08
Looney Tubbs, Mary — condolence (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Ward 09
Looney Tubbs, Mary — condolence (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Woodside Ave., 12713-17 — transfer — liquor permit
(F 80-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

57

The City Record

28

January 14, 2004

Ward 10
Euclid Ave., 18318 — transfer — liquor permit (R 16-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Golding, Deacon John A. — condolence (R 87-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Jones, Anthony — recognition (R 90-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Looney Tubbs, Mary — condolence (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Ward 11
Kushner, Harry — condolence (R 85-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Looney Tubbs, Mary — condolence (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
St. Clair Ave., 18506 — new — liquor permit (F 78-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Ward 12
Looney Tubbs, Mary — condolence (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
St. Michael Hospital — donation of the real property — improvements
(O.2152-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

Ward 13
Baer, April — recognition (R 91-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Looney Tubbs, Mary — condolence (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Valleyview Estate — students relocated — support efforts to allow students to
complete 2003-2004 school year in school year they currently attend
(R 72-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Ward 14
Looney Tubbs, Mary — condolence (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Ward 15
Broadview Rd., 3314 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit
(R 17-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Denison Ave., 2317 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit
(R 18-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Kreinberg, Joseph S. — condolence (R 84-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Looney Tubbs, Mary — condolence (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Ward 16
Looney Tubbs, Mary — condolence (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Ward 17
Gallucci, Grace — recognition (R 92-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Looney Tubbs, Mary — condolence (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Ward 18
Barensfeld, Tom — condolence (R 83-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Hahn, Walter W. — condolence (R 86-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Looney Tubbs, Mary — condolence (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Ward 19
Barensfeld, Tom — condolence (R 83-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Bellaire Rd., 10606 — transfer — liquor permit (F 79-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Looney Tubbs, Mary — condolence (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

58

January 14, 2004

The City Record

29

Ward 20
Bartimole, Roldo — congratulation (R 88-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Hahn, Walter W. — condolence (R 86-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Looney Tubbs, Mary — condolence (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Ward 21
Looney Tubbs, Mary — condolence (R 82-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
W. 168th St. & Albers Ave. northwest corner — sale City owned parking lot
(O 65-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34

59

